windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/gpo-domiso-isolateddomain-servers.md, before:

---
title: GPO\_DOMISO\_IsolatedDomain\_Servers (Windows 10)
description: GPO\_DOMISO\_IsolatedDomain\_Servers
ms.assetid: 33aed8f3-fdc3-4f96-985c-e9d2720015d3
ms.reviewer: 
ms.author: dansimp
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: dansimp
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/17/2017
---

# GPO\_DOMISO\_IsolatedDomain\_Servers

**Applies to**
-   Windows 10
-   Windows Server 2016

This GPO is authored by using the Windows Defender Firewall interface in the Group Policy editing tools. The User Configuration section of the GPO is disabled. It is intended to only apply to server devices that are running at least Windows Server 2008.

Because so many of the settings and rules for this GPO are common to those in the GPO for at least Windows Vista, you can save time by exporting the Windows Defender Firewall piece of the GPO for at least Windows Vista, and importing it to the GPO for at least Windows Server 2008. After the import, change only the items specified here:

-   This GPO applies all its settings to all profiles: Domain, Private, and Public. Because a server is not expected to be mobile and changing networks, configuring the GPO in this way prevents a network failure or the addition of a new network adapter from unintentionally switching the device to the Public profile with a different set of rules (in the case of a server running Windows Server 2008).

    >**Important:**  Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 support only one network location profile at a time. The profile for the least secure network type is applied to the device. If you attach a network adapter to a device that is not physically connected to a network, the public network location type is associated with the network adapter and applied to the device.

**Next:** [Boundary Zone GPOs](boundary-zone-gpos.md)

Commit message:

Updated meta descriptions
Note: I did not look at flow, spelling, grammar, etc., as such was out of scope for this task.

windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/gpo-domiso-isolateddomain-servers.md, after:

---
title: GPO\_DOMISO\_IsolatedDomain\_Servers (Windows 10)
description: Author this GPO by using the Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security interface in the Group Policy editing tools.
ms.assetid: 33aed8f3-fdc3-4f96-985c-e9d2720015d3
ms.reviewer: 
ms.author: dansimp
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: dansimp
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/17/2017
---

# GPO\_DOMISO\_IsolatedDomain\_Servers

**Applies to**
-   Windows 10
-   Windows Server 2016

This GPO is authored by using the Windows Defender Firewall interface in the Group Policy editing tools. The User Configuration section of the GPO is disabled. It is intended to only apply to server devices that are running at least Windows Server 2008.

Because so many of the settings and rules for this GPO are common to those in the GPO for at least Windows Vista, you can save time by exporting the Windows Defender Firewall piece of the GPO for at least Windows Vista, and importing it to the GPO for at least Windows Server 2008. After the import, change only the items specified here:

-   This GPO applies all its settings to all profiles: Domain, Private, and Public. Because a server is not expected to be mobile and changing networks, configuring the GPO in this way prevents a network failure or the addition of a new network adapter from unintentionally switching the device to the Public profile with a different set of rules (in the case of a server running Windows Server 2008).

    >**Important:**  Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 support only one network location profile at a time. The profile for the least secure network type is applied to the device. If you attach a network adapter to a device that is not physically connected to a network, the public network location type is associated with the network adapter and applied to the device.

**Next:** [Boundary Zone GPOs](boundary-zone-gpos.md)
