windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/command-line-arguments-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, before:

---
title: Use the command line to manage Windows Defender Antivirus
description: Run Windows Defender Antivirus scans and configure next-generation protection with a dedicated command-line utility.
keywords: run windows defender scan, run antivirus scan from command line, run windows defender scan from command line, mpcmdrun, defender
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.reviewer: ksarens 
manager: dansimp
---

# Configure and manage Windows Defender Antivirus with the mpcmdrun.exe command-line tool

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

You can perform various Windows Defender Antivirus functions with the dedicated command-line tool *mpcmdrun.exe*. This utility is useful when you want to automate Windows Defender Antivirus use. You can find the utility in `%ProgramFiles%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe`. You must run it from a command prompt.

> [!NOTE]
> You might need to open an administrator-level version of the command prompt. Right-click the item in the Start menu, click **Run as administrator** and click **Yes** at the permissions prompt.
>
> If you're running an updated Windows Defender Platform version, please run `MpCmdRun` from the following location: `C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows Defender\Platform\<version>`.

The utility has the following commands:

```DOS
MpCmdRun.exe [command] [-options]
```
Here's an example:
```
MpCmdRun.exe -scan -2
``` 

| Command  | Description   |
|:----|:----|
| `-?` **or** `-h`   | Displays all available options for this tool |
| `-Scan [-ScanType [0\|1\|2\|3]] [-File <path> [-DisableRemediation] [-BootSectorScan] [-CpuThrottling]] [-Timeout <days>] [-Cancel]` | Scans for malicious software. Values for **ScanType** are: **0** Default, according to your configuration, **-1** Quick scan, **-2** Full scan, **-3** File and directory custom scan.  CpuThrottling will honor the configured CPU throttling from policy |
| `-Trace [-Grouping #] [-Level #]` | Starts diagnostic tracing |
| `-GetFiles` | Collects support information |
| `-GetFilesDiagTrack`  | Same as `-GetFiles`, but outputs to temporary DiagTrack folder |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-All]` | Restores the installed Security intelligence to a previous backup copy or to the original default set |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-DynamicSignatures]` | Removes only the dynamically downloaded Security intelligence |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-Engine]` | Restores the previous installed engine |
| `-SignatureUpdate [-UNC \| -MMPC]` | Checks for new Security intelligence updates |
| `-Restore  [-ListAll \| [[-Name <name>] [-All] \| [-FilePath <filePath>]] [-Path <path>]]` | Restores or lists quarantined item(s) |
| `-AddDynamicSignature [-Path]` | Loads dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-ListAllDynamicSignatures` | Lists the loaded dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-RemoveDynamicSignature [-SignatureSetID]` | Removes dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-CheckExclusion -path <path>` | Checks whether a path is excluded |

## Related topics

- [Reference topics for management and configuration tools](configuration-management-reference-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Windows Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)

Commit message:

Changed windows to microsoft in UX mentions

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/command-line-arguments-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, after:

---
title: Use the command line to manage Microsoft Defender Antivirus
description: Run Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans and configure next-generation protection with a dedicated command-line utility.
keywords: run windows defender scan, run antivirus scan from command line, run windows defender scan from command line, mpcmdrun, defender
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.reviewer: ksarens 
manager: dansimp
---

# Configure and manage Microsoft Defender Antivirus with the mpcmdrun.exe command-line tool

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

You can perform various Microsoft Defender Antivirus functions with the dedicated command-line tool *mpcmdrun.exe*. This utility is useful when you want to automate Microsoft Defender Antivirus use. You can find the utility in `%ProgramFiles%\Windows Defender\MpCmdRun.exe`. You must run it from a command prompt.

> [!NOTE]
> You might need to open an administrator-level version of the command prompt. Right-click the item in the Start menu, click **Run as administrator** and click **Yes** at the permissions prompt.
>
> If you're running an updated Windows Defender Platform version, please run `MpCmdRun` from the following location: `C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows Defender\Platform\<version>`.

The utility has the following commands:

```DOS
MpCmdRun.exe [command] [-options]
```
Here's an example:
```
MpCmdRun.exe -scan -2
``` 

| Command  | Description   |
|:----|:----|
| `-?` **or** `-h`   | Displays all available options for this tool |
| `-Scan [-ScanType [0\|1\|2\|3]] [-File <path> [-DisableRemediation] [-BootSectorScan] [-CpuThrottling]] [-Timeout <days>] [-Cancel]` | Scans for malicious software. Values for **ScanType** are: **0** Default, according to your configuration, **-1** Quick scan, **-2** Full scan, **-3** File and directory custom scan.  CpuThrottling will honor the configured CPU throttling from policy |
| `-Trace [-Grouping #] [-Level #]` | Starts diagnostic tracing |
| `-GetFiles` | Collects support information |
| `-GetFilesDiagTrack`  | Same as `-GetFiles`, but outputs to temporary DiagTrack folder |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-All]` | Restores the installed Security intelligence to a previous backup copy or to the original default set |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-DynamicSignatures]` | Removes only the dynamically downloaded Security intelligence |
| `-RemoveDefinitions [-Engine]` | Restores the previous installed engine |
| `-SignatureUpdate [-UNC \| -MMPC]` | Checks for new Security intelligence updates |
| `-Restore  [-ListAll \| [[-Name <name>] [-All] \| [-FilePath <filePath>]] [-Path <path>]]` | Restores or lists quarantined item(s) |
| `-AddDynamicSignature [-Path]` | Loads dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-ListAllDynamicSignatures` | Lists the loaded dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-RemoveDynamicSignature [-SignatureSetID]` | Removes dynamic Security intelligence |
| `-CheckExclusion -path <path>` | Checks whether a path is excluded |

## Related topics

- [Reference topics for management and configuration tools](configuration-management-reference-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)
