windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/configure-advanced-scan-types-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, before:

---
title: Configure scanning options for Microsoft Defender AV
description: You can configure Microsoft Defender AV to scan email storage files, back-up or reparse points, network files, and archived files (such as .zip files).
keywords: advanced scans, scanning, email, archive, zip, rar, archive, reparse scanning
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp

---

# Configure Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning options

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

## Use Microsoft Intune to configure scanning options

See [Configure device restriction settings in Microsoft Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune/device-restrictions-configure) and [Microsoft Defender Antivirus device restriction settings for Windows 10 in Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune/device-restrictions-windows-10#microsoft-defender-antivirus) for more details.

## Use Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager to configure scanning options

See [How to create and deploy antimalware policies: Scan settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/protect/deploy-use/endpoint-antimalware-policies#scan-settings) for details on configuring Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (current branch).

## Use Group Policy to configure scanning options

To configure the Group Policy settings described in the following table:

1. On your Group Policy management computer, open the [Group Policy Management Console](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/cc731212.aspx), right-click the Group Policy Object you want to configure and click **Edit**.

2. In the **Group Policy Management Editor** go to **Computer configuration** and click **Administrative templates**.

3. Expand the tree to **Windows components > Microsoft Defender Antivirus** and then the **Location** specified in the table below.

4. Double-click the policy **Setting** as specified in the table below, and set the option to your desired configuration. Click **OK**, and repeat for any other settings.

Description | Location and setting | Default setting (if not configured) | PowerShell `Set-MpPreference` parameter or WMI property for `MSFT_MpPreference` class
---|---|---|---
Email scanning See [Email scanning limitations](#ref1)| Scan > Turn on e-mail scanning | Disabled | `-DisableEmailScanning`
Scan [reparse points](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/aa365503.aspx) | Scan > Turn on reparse point scanning | Disabled | Not available
Scan mapped network drives | Scan > Run full scan on mapped network drives | Disabled | `-DisableScanningMappedNetworkDrivesForFullScan`
 Scan archive files (such as .zip or .rar files). The [extensions exclusion list](configure-extension-file-exclusions-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md) will take precedence over this setting. | Scan > Scan archive files | Enabled | `-DisableArchiveScanning`
Scan files on the network | Scan > Scan network files | Disabled | `-DisableScanningNetworkFiles`
Scan packed executables | Scan > Scan packed executables | Enabled | Not available
Scan removable drives during full scans only | Scan > Scan removable drives | Disabled | `-DisableRemovableDriveScanning`
Specify the level of subfolders within an archive folder to scan | Scan > Specify the maximum depth to scan archive files | 0 | Not available
 Specify the maximum CPU load (as a percentage) during a scan. Note: This is not a hard limit but rather a guidance for the scanning engine to not exceed this maximum on average. | Scan > Specify the maximum percentage of CPU utilization during a scan | 50 |  `-ScanAvgCPULoadFactor`
 Specify the maximum size (in kilobytes) of archive files that should be scanned. The default, **0**, applies no limit | Scan > Specify the maximum size of archive files to be scanned | No limit | Not available
 Configure low CPU priority for scheduled scans | Scan > Configure low CPU priority for scheduled scans | Disabled | Not available
 
>[!NOTE]
>If real-time protection is enabled, files are scanned before they are accessed and executed. The scanning scope includes all files, including those on mounted removable devices such as USB drives.

## Use PowerShell to configure scanning options

See [Manage Microsoft Defender Antivirus with PowerShell cmdlets](use-powershell-cmdlets-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md) and [Defender cmdlets](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/powershell/windows/defender/index) for more information on how to use PowerShell with Microsoft Defender Antivirus.

## Use WMI to configure scanning options

For using WMI classes, see [Windows Defender WMIv2 APIs](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn439477(v=vs.85).aspx).

<a id="ref1"></a>

## Email scanning limitations

Email scanning enables scanning of  email files used by Outlook and other mail clients during on-demand and scheduled scans. Embedded objects within an email file (such as attachments and archived files) are also scanned. The following file format types can be scanned and remediated:

- DBX
- MBX
- MIME

PST files used by Outlook 2003 or older (where the archive type is set to non-unicode) will also be scanned, but Windows Defender cannot remediate threats detected inside PST files.

If Microsoft Defender Antivirus detects a threat inside an email, it will show you the following information to assist you in identifying the compromised email, so you can remediate the threat manually:

- Email subject
- Attachment name

## Related topics

- [Customize, initiate, and review the results of Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans and remediation](customize-run-review-remediate-scans-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Configure and run on-demand Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans](run-scan-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Configure scheduled Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans](scheduled-catch-up-scans-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)

Commit message:

clarifying behavior on network shares

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/configure-advanced-scan-types-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, after:

---
title: Configure scanning options for Microsoft Defender AV
description: You can configure Microsoft Defender AV to scan email storage files, back-up or reparse points, network files, and archived files (such as .zip files).
keywords: advanced scans, scanning, email, archive, zip, rar, archive, reparse scanning
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp

---

# Configure Microsoft Defender Antivirus scanning options

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft 365 Defender rebranding](../../includes/microsoft-defender.md)]


**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

## Use Microsoft Intune to configure scanning options

See [Configure device restriction settings in Microsoft Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune/device-restrictions-configure) and [Microsoft Defender Antivirus device restriction settings for Windows 10 in Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/intune/device-restrictions-windows-10#microsoft-defender-antivirus) for more details.

## Use Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager to configure scanning options

See [How to create and deploy antimalware policies: Scan settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/protect/deploy-use/endpoint-antimalware-policies#scan-settings) for details on configuring Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager (current branch).

## Use Group Policy to configure scanning options

To configure the Group Policy settings described in the following table:

1. On your Group Policy management computer, open the [Group Policy Management Console](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/cc731212.aspx), right-click the Group Policy Object you want to configure and click **Edit**.

2. In the **Group Policy Management Editor** go to **Computer configuration** and click **Administrative templates**.

3. Expand the tree to **Windows components > Microsoft Defender Antivirus** and then the **Location** specified in the table below.

4. Double-click the policy **Setting** as specified in the table below, and set the option to your desired configuration. Click **OK**, and repeat for any other settings.

Description | Location and setting | Default setting (if not configured) | PowerShell `Set-MpPreference` parameter or WMI property for `MSFT_MpPreference` class
---|---|---|---
Email scanning See [Email scanning limitations](#ref1)| Scan > Turn on e-mail scanning | Disabled | `-DisableEmailScanning`
Scan [reparse points](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/aa365503.aspx) | Scan > Turn on reparse point scanning | Disabled | Not available
Scan mapped network drives | Scan > Run full scan on mapped network drives | Disabled | `-DisableScanningMappedNetworkDrivesForFullScan`
 Scan archive files (such as .zip or .rar files). The [extensions exclusion list](configure-extension-file-exclusions-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md) will take precedence over this setting. | Scan > Scan archive files | Enabled | `-DisableArchiveScanning`
Scan files on the network | Scan > Scan network files | Disabled | `-DisableScanningNetworkFiles`
Scan packed executables | Scan > Scan packed executables | Enabled | Not available
Scan removable drives during full scans only | Scan > Scan removable drives | Disabled | `-DisableRemovableDriveScanning`
Specify the level of subfolders within an archive folder to scan | Scan > Specify the maximum depth to scan archive files | 0 | Not available
 Specify the maximum CPU load (as a percentage) during a scan. Note: This is not a hard limit but rather a guidance for the scanning engine to not exceed this maximum on average. | Scan > Specify the maximum percentage of CPU utilization during a scan | 50 |  `-ScanAvgCPULoadFactor`
 Specify the maximum size (in kilobytes) of archive files that should be scanned. The default, **0**, applies no limit | Scan > Specify the maximum size of archive files to be scanned | No limit | Not available
 Configure low CPU priority for scheduled scans | Scan > Configure low CPU priority for scheduled scans | Disabled | Not available
 
> [!NOTE]
> If real-time protection is turned on, files are scanned before they are accessed and executed. The scanning scope includes all files, including files on mounted removable media, such as USB drives. If the device performing the scan has real-time protection or on-access protection turned on, the scan will also include network shares.

## Use PowerShell to configure scanning options

See [Manage Microsoft Defender Antivirus with PowerShell cmdlets](use-powershell-cmdlets-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md) and [Defender cmdlets](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/powershell/windows/defender/index) for more information on how to use PowerShell with Microsoft Defender Antivirus.

## Use WMI to configure scanning options

For using WMI classes, see [Windows Defender WMIv2 APIs](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/dn439477(v=vs.85).aspx).

<a id="ref1"></a>

## Email scanning limitations

Email scanning enables scanning of  email files used by Outlook and other mail clients during on-demand and scheduled scans. Embedded objects within an email file (such as attachments and archived files) are also scanned. The following file format types can be scanned and remediated:

- DBX
- MBX
- MIME

PST files used by Outlook 2003 or older (where the archive type is set to non-unicode) will also be scanned, but Windows Defender cannot remediate threats detected inside PST files.

If Microsoft Defender Antivirus detects a threat inside an email, it will show you the following information to assist you in identifying the compromised email, so you can remediate the threat manually:

- Email subject
- Attachment name

## Related topics

- [Customize, initiate, and review the results of Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans and remediation](customize-run-review-remediate-scans-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Configure and run on-demand Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans](run-scan-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Configure scheduled Microsoft Defender Antivirus scans](scheduled-catch-up-scans-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
- [Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)
