windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/evaluate-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, before:

---
title: Evaluate Windows Defender Antivirus
description: Businesses of all sizes can use this guide to evaluate and test the protection offered by Windows Defender Antivirus in Windows 10.
keywords: windows defender antivirus, cloud protection, cloud, antimalware, security, defender, evaluate, test, protection, compare, real-time protection
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.date: 09/03/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Evaluate Windows Defender Antivirus

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Use this guide to determine how well Windows Defender Antivirus protects you from viruses, malware, and potentially unwanted applications.

>[!TIP]
>You can also visit the Microsoft Defender ATP demo website at [demo.wd.microsoft.com](https://demo.wd.microsoft.com?ocid=cx-wddocs-testground) to confirm the following features are working and see how they work:
>- Cloud-delivered protection
>- Fast learning (including Block at first sight)
>- Potentially unwanted application blocking

It explains the important next generation protection features of Windows Defender Antivirus available for both small and large enterprises, and how they increase malware detection and protection across your network.

You can choose to configure and evaluate each setting independently, or all at once. We have grouped similar settings based upon typical evaluation scenarios, and include instructions for using PowerShell to enable the settings.

The guide is available in PDF format for offline viewing:

- [Download the guide in PDF format](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=54795)

You can also download a PowerShell that will enable all the settings described in the guide automatically. You can obtain the script alongside the PDF download above, or individually from PowerShell Gallery:

- [Download the PowerShell script to automatically configure the settings](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/WindowsDefender_InternalEvaluationSettings)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The guide is currently intended for single-machine evaluation of Windows Defender Antivirus. Enabling all of the settings in this guide may not be suitable for real-world deployment.
>
> For the latest recommendations for real-world deployment and monitoring of Windows Defender Antivirus across a network, see [Deploy Windows Defender Antivirus](deploy-manage-report-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md).

## Related topics

- [Windows Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)
- [Deploy Windows Defender Antivirus](deploy-manage-report-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)

Commit message:

Changed windows to microsoft in UX mentions

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-antivirus/evaluate-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md, after:

---
title: Evaluate Microsoft Defender Antivirus
description: Businesses of all sizes can use this guide to evaluate and test the protection offered by Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10.
keywords: Microsoft Defender Antivirus, cloud protection, cloud, antimalware, security, defender, evaluate, test, protection, compare, real-time protection
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.pagetype: security
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: manage
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
ms.custom: nextgen
ms.date: 09/03/2018
ms.reviewer: 
manager: dansimp
---

# Evaluate Microsoft Defender Antivirus

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

Use this guide to determine how well Microsoft Defender Antivirus protects you from viruses, malware, and potentially unwanted applications.

>[!TIP]
>You can also visit the Microsoft Defender ATP demo website at [demo.wd.microsoft.com](https://demo.wd.microsoft.com?ocid=cx-wddocs-testground) to confirm the following features are working and see how they work:
>- Cloud-delivered protection
>- Fast learning (including Block at first sight)
>- Potentially unwanted application blocking

It explains the important next generation protection features of Microsoft Defender Antivirus available for both small and large enterprises, and how they increase malware detection and protection across your network.

You can choose to configure and evaluate each setting independently, or all at once. We have grouped similar settings based upon typical evaluation scenarios, and include instructions for using PowerShell to enable the settings.

The guide is available in PDF format for offline viewing:

- [Download the guide in PDF format](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=54795)

You can also download a PowerShell that will enable all the settings described in the guide automatically. You can obtain the script alongside the PDF download above, or individually from PowerShell Gallery:

- [Download the PowerShell script to automatically configure the settings](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/WindowsDefender_InternalEvaluationSettings)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The guide is currently intended for single-machine evaluation of Microsoft Defender Antivirus. Enabling all of the settings in this guide may not be suitable for real-world deployment.
>
> For the latest recommendations for real-world deployment and monitoring of Microsoft Defender Antivirus across a network, see [Deploy Microsoft Defender Antivirus](deploy-manage-report-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md).

## Related topics

- [Microsoft Defender Antivirus in Windows 10](microsoft-defender-antivirus-in-windows-10.md)
- [Deploy Microsoft Defender Antivirus](deploy-manage-report-microsoft-defender-antivirus.md)
