windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/alerts-queue-endpoint-detection-response.md, before:

---
title: Alerts queue in Microsoft Defender Security Center
ms.reviewer: 
description: View and manage the alerts surfaced in Microsoft Defender Security Center
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/03/2018
---

# Alerts queue in Microsoft Defender Security Center
Learn how you can view and manage the queue so that you can effectively investigate threats seen on entities such as machines, files, or user accounts.


## In this section
Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[View and organize the Alerts queue](alerts-queue.md) | Shows a list of alerts that were flagged in your network.
[Manage alerts](manage-alerts.md) | Learn about how you can manage alerts such as change its status, assign it to a security operations member, and see the history of an alert.
[Investigate alerts](investigate-alerts.md)| Investigate alerts that are affecting your network, understand what they mean, and how to resolve them.
[Investigate files](investigate-files.md)| Investigate the details of a file associated with a specific alert, behaviour, or event. 
[Investigate machines](investigate-machines.md)| Investigate the details of a machine associated with a specific alert, behaviour, or event. 
[Investigate an IP address](investigate-ip.md) | Examine possible communication between machines in your network and external internet protocol (IP) addresses.
[Investigate a domain](investigate-domain.md) | Investigate a domain to see if machines and servers in your network have been communicating with a known malicious domain. 
[Investigate a user account](investigate-user.md) | Identify user accounts with the most active alerts and investigate cases of potential compromised credentials.

Commit message:

First set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/alerts-queue-endpoint-detection-response.md, after:

---
title: Alerts queue in Microsoft Defender Security Center
ms.reviewer: 
description: View and manage the alerts surfaced in Microsoft Defender Security Center
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 09/03/2018
---

# Alerts queue in Microsoft Defender Security Center
Learn how you can view and manage the queue so that you can effectively investigate threats seen on entities such as devices, files, or user accounts.


## In this section
Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[View and organize the Alerts queue](alerts-queue.md) | Shows a list of alerts that were flagged in your network.
[Manage alerts](manage-alerts.md) | Learn about how you can manage alerts such as change its status, assign it to a security operations member, and see the history of an alert.
[Investigate alerts](investigate-alerts.md)| Investigate alerts that are affecting your network, understand what they mean, and how to resolve them.
[Investigate files](investigate-files.md)| Investigate the details of a file associated with a specific alert, behaviour, or event. 
[Investigate devices](investigate-machines.md)| Investigate the details of a device associated with a specific alert, behaviour, or event. 
[Investigate an IP address](investigate-ip.md) | Examine possible communication between devices in your network and external internet protocol (IP) addresses.
[Investigate a domain](investigate-domain.md) | Investigate a domain to see if devices and servers in your network have been communicating with a known malicious domain. 
[Investigate a user account](investigate-user.md) | Identify user accounts with the most active alerts and investigate cases of potential compromised credentials.
