windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/configuration-score.md, before:

---
title: Overview of Configuration score in Microsoft Defender Security Center
description: Your configuration score shows the collective security configuration state of your machines across application, operating system, network, accounts, and security controls
keywords: configuration score, mdatp configuration score, secure score, security controls, improvement opportunities, security configuration score over time, security posture, baseline
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# Configuration score

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>[!NOTE]
> Secure score is now part of Threat & Vulnerability Management as Configuration score.

Your Configuration score is visible in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md) of the Microsoft Defender Security Center. It reflects the collective security configuration state of your machines across the following categories:

- Application
- Operating system
- Network
- Accounts
- Security controls

A higher configuration score means your endpoints are more resilient from cybersecurity threat attacks.

## How it works

>[!NOTE]
> Configuration score currently supports configurations set via Group Policy. Due to the current partial Intune support, configurations which might have been set through Intune might show up as misconfigured. Contact your IT Administrator to verify the actual configuration status in case your organization is using Intune for secure configuration management.

The data in the configuration score card is the product of meticulous and ongoing vulnerability discovery process aggregated with configuration discovery assessments that continuously:

- Compare collected configurations to the collected benchmarks to discover misconfigured assets
- Map configurations to vulnerabilities that can be remediated or partially remediated (risk reduction) by remediating the misconfiguration
- Collect and maintain best practice configuration benchmarks (vendors, security feeds, internal research teams)
- Collect and monitor changes of security control configuration state from all assets

From the widget, you'd be able to see which security aspect requires attention. You can click the configuration score categories and it will take you to the **Security recommendations** page to see more details and understand the context of the issue. From there, you can act on them based on security benchmarks.

## Improve your configuration score

The goal is to remediate the issues in the security recommendations list to improve your configuration score. You can filter the view based on:

- **Related component** — **Accounts**, **Application**, **Network**, **OS**, or **Security controls** 
- **Remediation type** — **Configuration change** or **Software update**

See how you can [improve your security configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios#improve-your-security-configuration), for details.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>To boost your vulnerability assessment detection rates, download the following mandatory security updates and deploy them in your network:
>- 19H1 customers | [KB 4512941](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4512941/windows-10-update-kb4512941)
>- RS5 customers | [KB 4516077](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516077/windows-10-update-kb4516077)
>- RS4 customers | [KB 4516045](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516045/windows-10-update-kb4516045)
>- RS3 customers | [KB 4516071](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516071/windows-10-update-kb4516071)
>
>To download the security updates:
>1. Go to [Microsoft Update Catalog](https://www.catalog.update.microsoft.com/home.aspx).
>2. Key-in the security update KB number that you need to download, then click **Search**.  

## Related topics

- [Supported operating systems and platforms](tvm-supported-os.md)
- [Risk-based Threat & Vulnerability Management](next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt.md) 
- [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard overview](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)
- [Exposure score](tvm-exposure-score.md)
- [Security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md)
- [Remediation and exception](tvm-remediation.md)
- [Software inventory](tvm-software-inventory.md)
- [Weaknesses](tvm-weaknesses.md)
- [Scenarios](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md)
- [Configure data access for Threat & Vulnerability Management roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/user-roles#create-roles-and-assign-the-role-to-an-azure-active-directory-group)
- [Score APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/score)
- [Software APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/software)
- [Vulnerability APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/vulnerability)
- [Recommendation APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/vulnerability)

Commit message:

update sections for new experiences

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/configuration-score.md, after:

---
title: Overview of Configuration score in Microsoft Defender Security Center
description: Your configuration score shows the collective security configuration state of your machines across application, operating system, network, accounts, and security controls
keywords: configuration score, mdatp configuration score, secure score, security controls, improvement opportunities, security configuration score over time, security posture, baseline
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# Configuration score

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>[!NOTE]
> Secure score is now part of Threat & Vulnerability Management as Configuration score.

Your Configuration score is visible in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md) of the Microsoft Defender Security Center. It reflects the collective security configuration state of your machines across the following categories:

- Application
- Operating system
- Network
- Accounts
- Security controls

A higher configuration score means your endpoints are more resilient from cybersecurity threat attacks.

## How it works

>[!NOTE]
> Configuration score currently supports configurations set via Group Policy. Due to the current partial Intune support, configurations which might have been set through Intune might show up as misconfigured. Contact your IT Administrator to verify the actual configuration status in case your organization is using Intune for secure configuration management.

The data in the configuration score card is the product of meticulous and ongoing vulnerability discovery process aggregated with configuration discovery assessments that continuously:

- Compare collected configurations to the collected benchmarks to discover misconfigured assets
- Map configurations to vulnerabilities that can be remediated or partially remediated (risk reduction) by remediating the misconfiguration
- Collect and maintain best practice configuration benchmarks (vendors, security feeds, internal research teams)
- Collect and monitor changes of security control configuration state from all assets

From the widget, you'd be able to see which security aspect requires attention. You can click the configuration score categories and it will take you to the **Security recommendations** page to see more details and understand the context of the issue. From there, you can act on them based on security benchmarks.

## Improve your security configuration

You can improve your security configuration when you remediate issues from the security recommendations list. As you do so, your configuration score improves, which means your organization becomes more resilient against cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities.

1. From the Configuration score card in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md), select **Security controls**. The [**Security recommendations**](tvm-security-recommendation.md) page opens to shows the list of recommendations related to security controls.

2. Select an item on the list. The flyout panel will open with details related to the recommendation. Select **Remediation options**.

   ![Security controls related security recommendations](images/tvm_security_controls.png)

3. Read the description to understand the context of the issue and what to do next. Select a due date, add notes, and select **Export all remediation activity data to CSV** so you can attach it to the email that you can send to your IT Administrator for follow-up.

   >![Request remediation](images/tvm_request_remediation.png).

   You will see a confirmation message that the remediation task has been created.
   >![Remediation task creation confirmation](images/tvm_remediation_task_created.png)

4. Save your CSV file.
   ![Save csv file](images/tvm_save_csv_file.png)

5. Send a follow-up email to your IT Administrator and allow the time that you have allotted for the remediation to propagate in the system.

6. Review the machine **Configuration score** card again on the dashboard. The number of security controls recommendations will decrease. When you select **Security controls** to go back to the **Security recommendations** page, the item that you have addressed will not be listed there anymore, and your configuration score should increase.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>To boost your vulnerability assessment detection rates, download the following mandatory security updates and deploy them in your network:
>- 19H1 customers | [KB 4512941](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4512941/windows-10-update-kb4512941)
>- RS5 customers | [KB 4516077](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516077/windows-10-update-kb4516077)
>- RS4 customers | [KB 4516045](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516045/windows-10-update-kb4516045)
>- RS3 customers | [KB 4516071](https://support.microsoft.com/help/4516071/windows-10-update-kb4516071)
>
>To download the security updates:
>1. Go to [Microsoft Update Catalog](https://www.catalog.update.microsoft.com/home.aspx).
>2. Key-in the security update KB number that you need to download, then click **Search**.  

## Related topics

- [Supported operating systems and platforms](tvm-supported-os.md)
- [Risk-based Threat & Vulnerability Management](next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt.md) 
- [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard overview](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)
- [Exposure score](tvm-exposure-score.md)
- [Security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md)
- [Remediation and exception](tvm-remediation.md)
- [Software inventory](tvm-software-inventory.md)
- [Weaknesses](tvm-weaknesses.md)
- [Scenarios](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md)
- [Configure data access for Threat & Vulnerability Management roles](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/user-roles#create-roles-and-assign-the-role-to-an-azure-active-directory-group)
- [Score APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/score)
- [Software APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/software)
- [Vulnerability APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/vulnerability)
- [Recommendation APIs](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/vulnerability)
