windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-missing-kbs-machine.md, before:

---
title: Get missing KBs by machine ID
description: Retrieves missing KBs by machine Id
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, list, file, information, machine id, threat & vulnerability management api, mdatp tvm api
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get missing KBs by machine ID

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink)

Retrieves missing KBs by machine Id

## HTTP request

```
GET /api/machines/{machineId}/getmissingkbs
```

## Request header

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.

## Request body

Empty

## Response

If successful, this method returns 200 OK, with the specified machine missing kb data in the body.

## Example

### Request

Here is an example of the request.

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines/2339ad14a01bd0299afb93dfa2550136057bff96/getmissingkbs 
```

### Response

Here is an example of the response.


```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/$metadata#Collection(microsoft.windowsDefenderATP.api.PublicProductFixDto)",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "4540673",
            "name": "March 2020 Security Updates",
            "productsNames": [
                "windows_10",
                "edge",
                "internet_explorer"
            ],
            "url": "https://catalog.update.microsoft.com/v7/site/Search.aspx?q=KB4540673",
            "machineMissedOn": 1,
            "cveAddressed": 97
        },
         ...
        ]
}
```

## Related topics

- [Risk-based Threat & Vulnerability Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt)
- [Threat & Vulnerability software inventory](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/tvm-software-inventory)

Commit message:

Third set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-missing-kbs-machine.md, after:

---
title: Get missing KBs by device ID
description: Retrieves missing KBs by device Id
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, list, file, information, device id, threat & vulnerability management api, mdatp tvm api
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get missing KBs by device ID

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink)

Retrieves missing KBs by device Id

## HTTP request

```
GET /api/machines/{machineId}/getmissingkbs
```

## Request header

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.

## Request body

Empty

## Response

If successful, this method returns 200 OK, with the specified device missing kb data in the body.

## Example

### Request

Here is an example of the request.

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines/2339ad14a01bd0299afb93dfa2550136057bff96/getmissingkbs 
```

### Response

Here is an example of the response.


```json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/$metadata#Collection(microsoft.windowsDefenderATP.api.PublicProductFixDto)",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "4540673",
            "name": "March 2020 Security Updates",
            "productsNames": [
                "windows_10",
                "edge",
                "internet_explorer"
            ],
            "url": "https://catalog.update.microsoft.com/v7/site/Search.aspx?q=KB4540673",
            "machineMissedOn": 1,
            "cveAddressed": 97
        },
         ...
        ]
}
```

## Related topics

- [Risk-based Threat & Vulnerability Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt)
- [Threat & Vulnerability software inventory](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/tvm-software-inventory)
