windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machine-related-alerts.md, before:

---
title: Get machine related alerts API
description: Retrieves a collection of alerts related to a given machine ID.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, machines, related, alerts
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get machine related alerts  API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves all [Alerts](alerts.md) related to a specific machine.


## Limitations
1. You can query on machines last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Alert.Read.All |	'Read all alerts'
Application |	Alert.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.Read | 'Read alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.ReadWrite | 'Read and write alerts'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- User needs to have access to the machine, based on machine group settings (See [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/machines/{id}/alerts
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and machine exists - 200 OK with list of [alert](alerts.md) entities in the body. If machine was not found - 404 Not Found.

Commit message:

Third set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machine-related-alerts.md, after:

---
title: Get machine related alerts API
description: Retrieves a collection of alerts related to a given device ID.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, devices, related, alerts
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get machine related alerts  API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves all [Alerts](alerts.md) related to a specific device.


## Limitations
1. You can query on devices last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Alert.Read.All |	'Read all alerts'
Application |	Alert.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.Read | 'Read alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.ReadWrite | 'Read and write alerts'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- User needs to have access to the device, based on device group settings (See [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/machines/{id}/alerts
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and device exists - 200 OK with list of [alert](alerts.md) entities in the body. If device was not found - 404 Not Found.
