windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machine-log-on-users.md, before:

---
title: Get machine log on users API
description: Retrieve a collection of logged on users on a specific machine using Microsoft Defender ATP APIs.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, machine, log on, users
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get machine log on users API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of logged on users on a specific machine.


## Limitations
1. You can query on machines last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	User.Read.All |	'Read user profiles'
Delegated (work or school account) | User.Read.All | 'Read user profiles'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include users only if the machine is visible to the user, based on machine group settings (See [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/machines/{id}/logonusers
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and machine exist - 200 OK with list of [user](user.md) entities in the body. If machine was not found - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines/1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07/logonusers
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#Users",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "contoso\\user1",
            "accountName": "user1",
            "accountDomain": "contoso",
            "accountSid": "S-1-5-21-72051607-1745760036-109187956-93922",
            "firstSeen": "2019-12-18T08:02:54Z",
            "lastSeen": "2020-01-06T08:01:48Z",
            "mostPrevalentMachineId": "111153d0c675eaa415b8e5f383c6388bff446c62",
            "leastPrevalentMachineId": "111153d0c675eaa415b8e5f383c6388bff446c62",
            "logonTypes": "Interactive",
            "logOnMachinesCount": 8,
            "isDomainAdmin": true,
            "isOnlyNetworkUser": false
        },
		...
    ]
}
```

Commit message:

Third set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machine-log-on-users.md, after:

---
title: Get machine log on users API
description: Retrieve a collection of logged on users on a specific device using Microsoft Defender ATP APIs.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, device, log on, users
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get machine log on users API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of logged on users on a specific device.


## Limitations
1. You can query on devices last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	User.Read.All |	'Read user profiles'
Delegated (work or school account) | User.Read.All | 'Read user profiles'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include users only if the device is visible to the user, based on device group settings (See [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/machines/{id}/logonusers
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and device exist - 200 OK with list of [user](user.md) entities in the body. If device was not found - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines/1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07/logonusers
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#Users",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "contoso\\user1",
            "accountName": "user1",
            "accountDomain": "contoso",
            "accountSid": "S-1-5-21-72051607-1745760036-109187956-93922",
            "firstSeen": "2019-12-18T08:02:54Z",
            "lastSeen": "2020-01-06T08:01:48Z",
            "mostPrevalentMachineId": "111153d0c675eaa415b8e5f383c6388bff446c62",
            "leastPrevalentMachineId": "111153d0c675eaa415b8e5f383c6388bff446c62",
            "logonTypes": "Interactive",
            "logOnMachinesCount": 8,
            "isDomainAdmin": true,
            "isOnlyNetworkUser": false
        },
		...
    ]
}
```
