windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machines.md, before:

---
title: List machines API
description: Retrieves a collection of recently seen machines.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, machines
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# List machines API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of [Machines](machine.md) that have communicated with  Microsoft Defender ATP cloud on the last 30 days.
<br>Supports [OData V4 queries](https://www.odata.org/documentation/).
<br>The OData's ```$filter``` query is supported on: ```computerDnsName```, ```lastSeen```, ```lastIpAddress```, ```healthStatus```, ```osPlatform```, ```riskScore```, ```rbacGroupId``` and ```machineTags``` properties.
<br>See examples at [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)


## Limitations
1. You can get machines last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Maximum page size is 10,000.
3. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour. 


## Permissions

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include only machines,that the user have access to, based on machine group settings (See [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and machines exists - 200 OK with list of [machine](machine.md) entities in the body. If no recent machines - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#Machines",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07",
			"computerDnsName": "mymachine1.contoso.com",
			"firstSeen": "2018-08-02T14:55:03.7791856Z",
			"lastSeen": "2018-08-02T14:55:03.7791856Z",
			"osPlatform": "Windows10",
			"version": "1709",
			"osProcessor": "x64",
			"lastIpAddress": "172.17.230.209",
			"lastExternalIpAddress": "167.220.196.71",
			"osBuild": 18209,
			"healthStatus": "Active",
			"rbacGroupId": 140,
			"rbacGroupName": "The-A-Team",
			"riskScore": "Low",
			"exposureLevel": "Medium",
			"isAadJoined": true,
			"aadDeviceId": "80fe8ff8-2624-418e-9591-41f0491218f9",
			"machineTags": [ "test tag 1", "test tag 2" ]
        }
		...
    ]
}
```

## Related topics
- [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)

Commit message:

Third set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machines.md, after:

---
title: List machines API
description: Retrieves a collection of recently seen devices.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, devices
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# List machines API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of [Machines](machine.md) that have communicated with  Microsoft Defender ATP cloud on the last 30 days.
<br>Supports [OData V4 queries](https://www.odata.org/documentation/).
<br>The OData's ```$filter``` query is supported on: ```computerDnsName```, ```lastSeen```, ```lastIpAddress```, ```healthStatus```, ```osPlatform```, ```riskScore```, ```rbacGroupId``` and ```machineTags``` properties.
<br>See examples at [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)


## Limitations
1. You can get devices last seen in the past 30 days.
2. Maximum page size is 10,000.
3. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour. 


## Permissions

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include only devices, that the user have access to, based on device group settings (See [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and machines exists - 200 OK with list of [machine](machine.md) entities in the body. If no recent machines - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machines
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#Machines",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07",
			"computerDnsName": "mymachine1.contoso.com",
			"firstSeen": "2018-08-02T14:55:03.7791856Z",
			"lastSeen": "2018-08-02T14:55:03.7791856Z",
			"osPlatform": "Windows10",
			"version": "1709",
			"osProcessor": "x64",
			"lastIpAddress": "172.17.230.209",
			"lastExternalIpAddress": "167.220.196.71",
			"osBuild": 18209,
			"healthStatus": "Active",
			"rbacGroupId": 140,
			"rbacGroupName": "The-A-Team",
			"riskScore": "Low",
			"exposureLevel": "Medium",
			"isAadJoined": true,
			"aadDeviceId": "80fe8ff8-2624-418e-9591-41f0491218f9",
			"machineTags": [ "test tag 1", "test tag 2" ]
        }
		...
    ]
}
```

## Related topics
- [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)
