windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-user-related-machines.md, before:

---
title: Get user related machines API
description: Retrieves a collection of machines related to a given user ID.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, user, user related alerts
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get user related machines API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of machines related to a given user ID.


## Limitations
1. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include only machines that the user can access, based on machine group settings (See [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/users/{id}/machines
```

**Note that the id is not the full UPN, but only the user name. (e.g., to retrieve machines for user1@contoso.com use /api/users/user1/machines)**


## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and user exists - 200 OK with list of [machine](machine.md) entities in the body. If user does not exist - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/users/user1/machines
```

Commit message:

Third set of doc updates - machine-->device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-user-related-machines.md, after:

---
title: Get user related machines API
description: Retrieves a collection of devices related to a given user ID.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, get, user, user related alerts
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Get user related machines API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of devices related to a given user ID.


## Limitations
1. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- Response will include only devices that the user can access, based on device group settings (See [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET /api/users/{id}/machines
```

**Note that the id is not the full UPN, but only the user name. (e.g., to retrieve machines for user1@contoso.com use /api/users/user1/machines)**


## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful and user exists - 200 OK with list of [machine](machine.md) entities in the body. If user does not exist - 404 Not Found.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/users/user1/machines
```
