windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machineactions-collection.md, before:

---
title: List machineActions API
description: Use this API to create calls related to get machineactions collection
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, machineaction collection
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# List MachineActions API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of [Machine Actions](machineaction.md).
<br>Supports [OData V4 queries](https://www.odata.org/documentation/).
<br>The OData's ```$filter``` query is supported on: ```status```, ```machineId```, ```type```, ```requestor``` and ```creationDateTimeUtc``` properties.
<br>See examples at [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)


## Limitations
1. Maximum page size is 10,000.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour. 


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful, this method returns 200, Ok response code with a collection of [machineAction](machineaction.md) entities.


## Example 1

**Request**

Here is an example of the request on an organization that has three MachineActions.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#MachineActions",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "69dc3630-1ccc-4342-acf3-35286eec741d",
            "type": "CollectInvestigationPackage",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
            "computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:43:57.2011911Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:45:25.4049122Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "2e9da30d-27f6-4208-81f2-9cd3d67893ba",
            "type": "RunAntiVirusScan",
			"scope": "Full",
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "Check machine for viruses due to alert 3212",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
            "computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:27.1293487Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:57.5511934Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "44cffc15-0e3d-4cbf-96aa-bf76f9b27f5e",
            "type": "StopAndQuarantineFile",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:15:40.6052029Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:16:14.2899973Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": {
                "fileIdentifier": "a0c659857ccbe457fdaf5fe21d54efdcbf6f6508",
                "fileIdentifierType": "Sha1"
			}
        }
    ]
}
```

## Example 2

**Request**

Here is an example of a request that filters the MachineActions by machine ID and shows the latest two MachineActions.

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions?$filter=machineId eq 'f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f'&$top=2
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#MachineActions",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "69dc3630-1ccc-4342-acf3-35286eec741d",
            "type": "CollectInvestigationPackage",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:43:57.2011911Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:45:25.4049122Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "2e9da30d-27f6-4208-81f2-9cd3d67893ba",
            "type": "RunAntiVirusScan",
			"scope": "Full",
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "Check machine for viruses due to alert 3212",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:27.1293487Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:57.5511934Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        }
    ]
}
```

## Related topics
- [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)

Commit message:

Updated meta descriptions
Note: I did not look at flow, spelling, grammar, etc., as such was out of scope for this task.

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/get-machineactions-collection.md, after:

---
title: List machineActions API
description: Use the Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) API to create calls related to get machineactions collection.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, machineaction collection
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# List MachineActions API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Retrieves a collection of [Machine Actions](machineaction.md).
<br>Supports [OData V4 queries](https://www.odata.org/documentation/).
<br>The OData's ```$filter``` query is supported on: ```status```, ```machineId```, ```type```, ```requestor``` and ```creationDateTimeUtc``` properties.
<br>See examples at [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)


## Limitations
1. Maximum page size is 10,000.
2. Rate limitations for this API are 100 calls per minute and 1500 calls per hour. 


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Machine.Read.All |	'Read all machine profiles'
Application |	Machine.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.Read | 'Read machine information'
Delegated (work or school account) | Machine.ReadWrite | 'Read and write machine information'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'View Data' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)

## HTTP request
```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.


## Request body
Empty

## Response
If successful, this method returns 200, Ok response code with a collection of [machineAction](machineaction.md) entities.


## Example 1

**Request**

Here is an example of the request on an organization that has three MachineActions.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.


```
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#MachineActions",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "69dc3630-1ccc-4342-acf3-35286eec741d",
            "type": "CollectInvestigationPackage",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
            "computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:43:57.2011911Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:45:25.4049122Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "2e9da30d-27f6-4208-81f2-9cd3d67893ba",
            "type": "RunAntiVirusScan",
			"scope": "Full",
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "Check machine for viruses due to alert 3212",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
            "computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:27.1293487Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:57.5511934Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "44cffc15-0e3d-4cbf-96aa-bf76f9b27f5e",
            "type": "StopAndQuarantineFile",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:15:40.6052029Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:16:14.2899973Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": {
                "fileIdentifier": "a0c659857ccbe457fdaf5fe21d54efdcbf6f6508",
                "fileIdentifierType": "Sha1"
			}
        }
    ]
}
```

## Example 2

**Request**

Here is an example of a request that filters the MachineActions by machine ID and shows the latest two MachineActions.

```
GET https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/machineactions?$filter=machineId eq 'f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f'&$top=2
```

**Response**

Here is an example of the response.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
HTTP/1.1 200 Ok
Content-type: application/json
{
    "@odata.context": "https://api.securitycenter.windows.com/api/$metadata#MachineActions",
    "value": [
        {
            "id": "69dc3630-1ccc-4342-acf3-35286eec741d",
            "type": "CollectInvestigationPackage",
			"scope": null,
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "test",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:43:57.2011911Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:45:25.4049122Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        },
        {
            "id": "2e9da30d-27f6-4208-81f2-9cd3d67893ba",
            "type": "RunAntiVirusScan",
			"scope": "Full",
            "requestor": "Analyst@contoso.com",
            "requestorComment": "Check machine for viruses due to alert 3212",
            "status": "Succeeded",
            "machineId": "f46b9bb259ed4a7fb9981b73510e3cc7aa81ec1f",
			"computerDnsName": "desktop-39g9tgl",
            "creationDateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:27.1293487Z",
            "lastUpdateTimeUtc": "2018-12-04T12:18:57.5511934Z",
			"relatedFileInfo": null
        }
    ]
}
```

## Related topics
- [OData queries with Microsoft Defender ATP](exposed-apis-odata-samples.md)
