windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/initiate-autoir-investigation.md, before:

---
title: Start Investigation API
description: Use this API to start investigation on a machine.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, investigation
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Start Investigation API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Start automated investigation on a machine.
<br>See [Overview of automated investigations](automated-investigations.md) for more information.


## Limitations
1. Rate limitations for this API are 50 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Alert.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.ReadWrite | 'Read and write alerts'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'Active remediation actions' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- The user needs to have access to the machine, based on machine group settings (See [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)


## HTTP request
```
POST https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/machines/{id}/startInvestigation
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.
Content-Type | string | application/json. **Required**.

## Request body
In the request body, supply a JSON object with the following parameters:

Parameter |	Type	| Description
:---|:---|:---
Comment |	String |	Comment to associate with the action. **Required**.


## Response
If successful, this method returns 201 - Created response code and [Investigation](investigation.md) in the response body.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
POST https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/machines/1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07/startInvestigation
Content-type: application/json
{
  "Comment": "Test investigation",
}

Commit message:

Fourth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/initiate-autoir-investigation.md, after:

---
title: Start Investigation API
description: Use this API to start investigation on a device.
keywords: apis, graph api, supported apis, investigation
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Start Investigation API

**Applies to:** [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

- Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-exposedapis-abovefoldlink) 


## API description
Start automated investigation on a device.
<br>See [Overview of automated investigations](automated-investigations.md) for more information.


## Limitations
1. Rate limitations for this API are 50 calls per hour.


## Permissions
One of the following permissions is required to call this API. To learn more, including how to choose permissions, see [Use Microsoft Defender ATP APIs](apis-intro.md)

Permission type |	Permission	|	Permission display name
:---|:---|:---
Application |	Alert.ReadWrite.All |	'Read and write all alerts'
Delegated (work or school account) | Alert.ReadWrite | 'Read and write alerts'

>[!Note]
> When obtaining a token using user credentials:
>- The user needs to have at least the following role permission: 'Active remediation actions' (See [Create and manage roles](user-roles.md) for more information)
>- The user needs to have access to the device, based on device group settings (See [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md) for more information)


## HTTP request
```
POST https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/machines/{id}/startInvestigation
```

## Request headers

Name | Type | Description
:---|:---|:---
Authorization | String | Bearer {token}. **Required**.
Content-Type | string | application/json. **Required**.

## Request body
In the request body, supply a JSON object with the following parameters:

Parameter |	Type	| Description
:---|:---|:---
Comment |	String |	Comment to associate with the action. **Required**.


## Response
If successful, this method returns 201 - Created response code and [Investigation](investigation.md) in the response body.


## Example

**Request**

Here is an example of the request.

[!include[Improve request performance](../../includes/improve-request-performance.md)]

```
POST https://api.securitycenter.microsoft.com/api/machines/1e5bc9d7e413ddd7902c2932e418702b84d0cc07/startInvestigation
Content-type: application/json
{
  "Comment": "Test investigation",
}
