windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/investigate-incidents.md, before:

---
title: Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: See associated alerts, manage the incident, and see alert metadata to help you investigate an incident 
keywords: investigate, incident, alerts, metadata, risk, detection source, affected machines, patterns, correlation
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)


Investigate incidents that affect your network, understand what they mean, and collate evidence to resolve them. 

When you investigate an incident, you'll see:
- Incident details
- Incident comments and actions
- Tabs (alerts, machines, investigations, evidence, graph)

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE4qLUV]


## Analyze incident details 
Click an incident to see the **Incident pane**. Select **Open incident page** to see the incident details and related information (alerts, machines, investigations, evidence, graph). 

![Image of incident details](images/atp-incident-details.png)

### Alerts
You can investigate the alerts and see how they were linked together in an incident. 
Alerts are grouped into incidents based on the following reasons:
- Automated investigation - The automated investigation triggered the linked alert while investigating the original alert 
- File characteristics - The files associated with the alert have similar characteristics
- Manual association - A user manually linked the alerts
- Proximate time - The alerts were triggered on the same machine within a certain timeframe
- Same file - The files associated with the alert are exactly the same
- Same URL - The URL that triggered the alert is exactly the same

![Image of alerts tab with incident details page showing the reasons the alerts were linked together in that incident](images/atp-incidents-alerts-reason.png)

You can also manage an alert and see alert metadata along with other information. For more information, see [Investigate alerts](investigate-alerts.md). 

### Machines
You can also investigate the machines that are part of, or related to, a given incident. For more information, see [Investigate machines](investigate-machines.md).

![Image of machines tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-machine-tab.png)

### Investigations
Select **Investigations** to see all the automatic investigations launched by the system in response to the incident alerts.

![Image of investigations tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-investigations-tab.png)

## Going through the evidence
Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection automatically investigates all the incidents' supported events and suspicious entities in the alerts, providing you with auto-response and information about the important files, processes, services, and more. This helps quickly detect and block potential threats in the incident. 
Each of the analyzed entities will be marked as infected, remediated, or suspicious. 

![Image of evidence tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-evidence-tab.png)

## Visualizing associated cybersecurity threats 
Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection aggregates the threat information into an incident so you can see the patterns and correlations coming in from various data points. You can view such correlation through the incident graph.

### Incident graph
The **Graph** tells the story of the cybersecurity attack. For example, it shows you what was the entry point, which indicator of compromise or activity was observed on which machine. etc.

![Image of the incident graph](images/atp-incident-graph-tab.png)

You can click the circles on the incident graph to view the details of the malicious files, associated file detections, how many instances has there been worldwide, whether it’s been observed in your organization, if so, how many instances.

![Image of incident details](images/atp-incident-graph-details.png)

## Related topics
- [Incidents queue](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/view-incidents-queue)
- [Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/investigate-incidents)
- [Manage Microsoft Defender ATP incidents](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/manage-incidents)

Commit message:

Fourth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/investigate-incidents.md, after:

---
title: Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: See associated alerts, manage the incident, and see alert metadata to help you investigate an incident 
keywords: investigate, incident, alerts, metadata, risk, detection source, affected devices, patterns, correlation
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)


Investigate incidents that affect your network, understand what they mean, and collate evidence to resolve them. 

When you investigate an incident, you'll see:
- Incident details
- Incident comments and actions
- Tabs (alerts, devices, investigations, evidence, graph)

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE4qLUV]


## Analyze incident details 
Click an incident to see the **Incident pane**. Select **Open incident page** to see the incident details and related information (alerts, devices, investigations, evidence, graph). 

![Image of incident details](images/atp-incident-details.png)

### Alerts
You can investigate the alerts and see how they were linked together in an incident. 
Alerts are grouped into incidents based on the following reasons:
- Automated investigation - The automated investigation triggered the linked alert while investigating the original alert 
- File characteristics - The files associated with the alert have similar characteristics
- Manual association - A user manually linked the alerts
- Proximate time - The alerts were triggered on the same device within a certain timeframe
- Same file - The files associated with the alert are exactly the same
- Same URL - The URL that triggered the alert is exactly the same

![Image of alerts tab with incident details page showing the reasons the alerts were linked together in that incident](images/atp-incidents-alerts-reason.png)

You can also manage an alert and see alert metadata along with other information. For more information, see [Investigate alerts](investigate-alerts.md). 

### Devices
You can also investigate the devices that are part of, or related to, a given incident. For more information, see [Investigate devices](investigate-machines.md).

![Image of devices tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-machine-tab.png)

### Investigations
Select **Investigations** to see all the automatic investigations launched by the system in response to the incident alerts.

![Image of investigations tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-investigations-tab.png)

## Going through the evidence
Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection automatically investigates all the incidents' supported events and suspicious entities in the alerts, providing you with auto-response and information about the important files, processes, services, and more. This helps quickly detect and block potential threats in the incident. 
Each of the analyzed entities will be marked as infected, remediated, or suspicious. 

![Image of evidence tab in incident details page](images/atp-incident-evidence-tab.png)

## Visualizing associated cybersecurity threats 
Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection aggregates the threat information into an incident so you can see the patterns and correlations coming in from various data points. You can view such correlation through the incident graph.

### Incident graph
The **Graph** tells the story of the cybersecurity attack. For example, it shows you what was the entry point, which indicator of compromise or activity was observed on which device. etc.

![Image of the incident graph](images/atp-incident-graph-tab.png)

You can click the circles on the incident graph to view the details of the malicious files, associated file detections, how many instances has there been worldwide, whether it’s been observed in your organization, if so, how many instances.

![Image of incident details](images/atp-incident-graph-details.png)

## Related topics
- [Incidents queue](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/view-incidents-queue)
- [Investigate incidents in Microsoft Defender ATP](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/investigate-incidents)
- [Manage Microsoft Defender ATP incidents](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/manage-incidents)
