windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/linux-exclusions.md, before:

---
title: Configure and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux
description: Provide and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux. Exclusions can be set for files, folders, and processes.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, exclusions, scans, antivirus
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Configure and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Linux](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md)

This article provides information on how to define exclusions that apply to on-demand scans, and real-time protection and monitoring.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The exclusions described in this article don't apply to other Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux capabilities, including endpoint detection and response (EDR). Files that you exclude using the methods described in this article can still trigger EDR alerts and other detections.

You can exclude certain files, folders, processes, and process-opened files from Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux scans.

Exclusions can be useful to avoid incorrect detections on files or software that are unique or customized to your organization. They can also be useful for mitigating performance issues caused by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux.

> [!WARNING]
> Defining exclusions lowers the protection offered by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux. You should always evaluate the risks that are associated with implementing exclusions, and you should only exclude files that you are confident are not malicious.

## Supported exclusion types

The follow table shows the exclusion types supported by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux.

Exclusion | Definition | Examples
---|---|---
File extension | All files with the extension, anywhere on the device | `.test`
File | A specific file identified by the full path | `/var/log/test.log`<br/>`/var/log/*.log`<br/>`/var/log/install.?.log`
Folder | All files under the specified folder | `/var/log/`<br/>`/var/*/`
Process | A specific process (specified either by the full path or file name) and all files opened by it | `/bin/cat`<br/>`cat`<br/>`c?t`

File, folder, and process exclusions support the following wildcards:

Wildcard | Description | Example | Matches | Does not match
---|---|---|---|---
\* |	Matches any number of any characters including none (note that when this wildcard is used inside a path it will substitute only one folder) | `/var/\*/\*.log` | `/var/log/system.log` | `/var/log/nested/system.log`
? | Matches any single character | `file?.log` | `file1.log`<br/>`file2.log` | `file123.log`

## How to configure the list of exclusions

### From the management console

For more information on how to configure exclusions from Puppet, Ansible, or another management console, see [Set preferences for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux](linux-preferences.md).

### From the command line

Run the following command to see the available switches for managing exclusions:

```bash
mdatp exclusion
```

Examples:

- Add an exclusion for a file extension:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion extension add --name .txt
    ```
    ```Output
    Extension exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a file:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion file add --path /var/log/dummy.log
    ```
    ```Output
    File exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a folder:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion folder add --path /var/log/
    ```
    ```Output
    Folder exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a process:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion process add --name cat
    ```
    ```Output    
    Process exclusion configured successfully
    ```

## Validate exclusions lists with the EICAR test file

You can validate that your exclusion lists are working by using `curl` to download a test file.

In the following Bash snippet, replace `test.txt` with a file that conforms to your exclusion rules. For example, if you have excluded the `.testing` extension, replace `test.txt` with `test.testing`. If you are testing a path, ensure that you run the command within that path.

```bash
curl -o test.txt https://www.eicar.org/download/eicar.com.txt
```

If Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux reports malware, then the rule is not working. If there is no report of malware, and the downloaded file exists, then the exclusion is working. You can open the file to confirm that the contents are the same as what is described on the [EICAR test file website](http://2016.eicar.org/86-0-Intended-use.html).

If you do not have Internet access, you can create your own EICAR test file. Write the EICAR string to a new text file with the following Bash command:

```bash
echo 'X5O!P%@AP[4\PZX54(P^)7CC)7}$EICAR-STANDARD-ANTIVIRUS-TEST-FILE!$H+H*' > test.txt
```

You can also copy the string into a blank text file and attempt to save it with the file name or in the folder you are attempting to exclude.

Commit message:

Add info on allowing threats; update disk usage

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/linux-exclusions.md, after:

---
title: Configure and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux
description: Provide and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux. Exclusions can be set for files, folders, and processes.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, exclusions, scans, antivirus
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Configure and validate exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Linux](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md)

This article provides information on how to define exclusions that apply to on-demand scans, and real-time protection and monitoring.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The exclusions described in this article don't apply to other Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux capabilities, including endpoint detection and response (EDR). Files that you exclude using the methods described in this article can still trigger EDR alerts and other detections.

You can exclude certain files, folders, processes, and process-opened files from Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux scans.

Exclusions can be useful to avoid incorrect detections on files or software that are unique or customized to your organization. They can also be useful for mitigating performance issues caused by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux.

> [!WARNING]
> Defining exclusions lowers the protection offered by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux. You should always evaluate the risks that are associated with implementing exclusions, and you should only exclude files that you are confident are not malicious.

## Supported exclusion types

The follow table shows the exclusion types supported by Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux.

Exclusion | Definition | Examples
---|---|---
File extension | All files with the extension, anywhere on the device | `.test`
File | A specific file identified by the full path | `/var/log/test.log`<br/>`/var/log/*.log`<br/>`/var/log/install.?.log`
Folder | All files under the specified folder (recursively) | `/var/log/`<br/>`/var/*/`
Process | A specific process (specified either by the full path or file name) and all files opened by it | `/bin/cat`<br/>`cat`<br/>`c?t`

File, folder, and process exclusions support the following wildcards:

Wildcard | Description | Example | Matches | Does not match
---|---|---|---|---
\* |	Matches any number of any characters including none (note that when this wildcard is used inside a path it will substitute only one folder) | `/var/\*/\*.log` | `/var/log/system.log` | `/var/log/nested/system.log`
? | Matches any single character | `file?.log` | `file1.log`<br/>`file2.log` | `file123.log`

## How to configure the list of exclusions

### From the management console

For more information on how to configure exclusions from Puppet, Ansible, or another management console, see [Set preferences for Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux](linux-preferences.md).

### From the command line

Run the following command to see the available switches for managing exclusions:

```bash
mdatp exclusion
```

Examples:

- Add an exclusion for a file extension:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion extension add --name .txt
    ```
    ```Output
    Extension exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a file:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion file add --path /var/log/dummy.log
    ```
    ```Output
    File exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a folder:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion folder add --path /var/log/
    ```
    ```Output
    Folder exclusion configured successfully
    ```

- Add an exclusion for a process:

    ```bash
    mdatp exclusion process add --name cat
    ```
    ```Output    
    Process exclusion configured successfully
    ```

## Validate exclusions lists with the EICAR test file

You can validate that your exclusion lists are working by using `curl` to download a test file.

In the following Bash snippet, replace `test.txt` with a file that conforms to your exclusion rules. For example, if you have excluded the `.testing` extension, replace `test.txt` with `test.testing`. If you are testing a path, ensure that you run the command within that path.

```bash
curl -o test.txt https://www.eicar.org/download/eicar.com.txt
```

If Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux reports malware, then the rule is not working. If there is no report of malware, and the downloaded file exists, then the exclusion is working. You can open the file to confirm that the contents are the same as what is described on the [EICAR test file website](http://2016.eicar.org/86-0-Intended-use.html).

If you do not have Internet access, you can create your own EICAR test file. Write the EICAR string to a new text file with the following Bash command:

```bash
echo 'X5O!P%@AP[4\PZX54(P^)7CC)7}$EICAR-STANDARD-ANTIVIRUS-TEST-FILE!$H+H*' > test.txt
```

You can also copy the string into a blank text file and attempt to save it with the file name or in the folder you are attempting to exclude.

## Allow threats

In addition to excluding certain content from being scanned, you can also configure the product not to detect some classes of threats (identified by the threat name). You should exercise caution when using this functionality, as it can leave your device unprotected.

To add a threat name to the allowed list, execute the following command:

```bash
mdatp threat allowed add --name [threat-name]
```

The threat name associated with a detection on your device can be obtained using the following command:

```bash
mdatp threat list
```

For example, to add `EICAR-Test-File (not a virus)` (the threat name associated with the EICAR detection) to the allowed list, execute the following command:

```bash
mdatp threat allowed add --name "EICAR-Test-File (not a virus)"
```
