windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/linux-install-with-ansible.md, before:

---
title: Deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux with Ansible
ms.reviewer:
description: Describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux using Ansible.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, installation, deploy, uninstallation, puppet, ansible, linux, redhat, ubuntu, debian, sles, suse, centos
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux with Ansible

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Linux](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md)

This topic describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux using Ansible. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following tasks:

- [Download the onboarding package](#download-the-onboarding-package)
- [Create Ansible YAML files](#create-ansible-yaml-files)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [References](#references)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, please see [the main Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux page](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

- Ansible needs to be installed on at least on one computer (we will call it the master).
- SSH must be configured for an administrator account between the master and all clients, and it is recommended be configured with public key authentication.
- The following software must be installed on all clients:
  - curl
  - python-apt
  - unzip

- All hosts must be listed in the following format in the `/etc/ansible/hosts` file:

    ```bash
    [servers]
    host1 ansible_ssh_host=10.171.134.39
    host2 ansible_ssh_host=51.143.50.51
    ```

- Ping test:

    ```bash
    $ ansible -m ping all
    ```

## Download the onboarding package

Download the onboarding package from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Machine Management > Onboarding**.
2. In the first drop-down menu, select **Linux Server** as the operating system. In the second drop-down menu, select **Your preferred Linux configuration management tool** as the deployment method.
3. Select **Download onboarding package**. Save the file as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-linux-2.png)

4. From a command prompt, verify that you have the file. Extract the contents of the archive:

    ```bash
    $ ls -l
    total 8
    -rw-r--r-- 1 test  staff  4984 Feb 18 11:22 WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    $ unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    Archive:  WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    inflating: mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

## Create Ansible YAML files

Create subtask or role files that contribute to an actual task. First create the `download_copy_blob.yml` file under the `/etc/ansible/roles` directory:

- Copy the onboarding package to all client machines:

    ```bash
    - name: Copy the zip file
        copy:
            src:  /root/WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
            dest: /root/WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
            owner: root
            group: root
            mode: '0644'

    - name: Add Microsoft apt signing key
      apt_key:
        url: https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"
    ```

- Create the `setup.sh` script that operates on the onboarding file, in this example located in the `/root` directory:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    # We assume WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip is stored in /root
    cd /root || exit 1
    # Unzip the archive and create the onboarding file
    mkdir -p /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/
    unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    cp mdatp_onboard.json /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

- Create the onboarding task, `onboarding_setup.yml`, under the `/etc/ansible/roles` directory:

    ```bash
    - name: Register mdatp_onboard.json
      stat: path=/etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
      register: mdatp_onboard

    - name: Copy the setup script file
        copy:
            src: /root/setup.sh
            dest: /root/setup.sh
            owner: root
            group: root
            mode: '0744'

    - name: Run a script to create the onboarding file
      script: /root/setup.sh
      when: not mdatp_onboard.stat.exists
    ```

- Add the Microsoft Defender ATP repository and key.

    Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux can be deployed from one of the following channels (denoted below as *[channel]*): *insiders-fast*, *insiders-slow*, or *prod*. Each of these channels corresponds to a Linux software repository.

    The choice of the channel determines the type and frequency of updates that are offered to your device. Devices in *insiders-fast* are the first ones to receive updates and new features, followed later by *insiders-slow* and lastly by *prod*.

    In order to preview new features and provide early feedback, it is recommended that you configure some devices in your enterprise to use either *insiders-fast* or *insiders-slow*.

    Note your distribution and version and identify the closest entry for it under `https://packages.microsoft.com/config/`.

    In the following commands, replace *[distro]* and *[version]* with the information you've identified.

    > [!NOTE]
    > In case of Oracle Linux, replace *[distro]* with “rhel”.

        ```bash
        - name: Add Microsoft apt repository for MDATP
            apt_repository:
                repo: deb [arch=arm64,armhf,amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/prod [channel] main
                update_cache: yes
                state: present
                filename: microsoft-[channel].list
            when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

        - name: Add Microsoft APT key
            apt_key:
                keyserver: https://packages.microsoft.com/
                id: BC528686B50D79E339D3721CEB3E94ADBE1229CF
            when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

        - name: Add  Microsoft yum repository for MDATP
            yum_repository:
                name: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
                description: Microsoft Defender ATP
                file: microsoft-[channel]
                baseurl: https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/[channel]/
                gpgcheck: yes
                enabled: Yes
            when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"
        ```

- Create the actual install/uninstall YAML files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks`.

    - For apt-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        $ cat install_mdatp.yml
        - hosts: servers
            tasks:
                - include: ../roles/download_copy_blob.yml
                - include: ../roles/setup_blob.yml
                - include: ../roles/add_apt_repo.yml
                - apt:
                    name: mdatp
                    state: latest
                    update_cache: yes
        ```

        ```bash
        $ cat uninstall_mdatp.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

    - For yum-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        $ cat install_mdatp_yum.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - include: ../roles/download_copy_blob.yml
            - include: ../roles/setup_blob.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_yum_repo.yml
            - yum:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                enablerepo: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
        ```

        ```bash
        $ cat uninstall_mdatp_yum.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - yum:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

## Deployment

Now run the tasks files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks/`.

- Installation:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/install_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When the product starts for the first time, it downloads the latest antimalware definitions. Depending on your Internet connection, this can take up to a few minutes.

- Validation/configuration:

    ```bash
    $ ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp --connectivity-test' all
    $ ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp --health' all
    ```

- Uninstallation:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/uninstall_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

## Log installation issues

See [Log installation issues](linux-resources.md#log-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## References

- [Add or remove YUM repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.3/yum_repository_module.html)

- [Manage packages with the yum package manager](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/yum_module.html)

- [Add and remove APT repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/apt_repository_module.html)

- [Manage apt-packages](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/apt_module.html)

Commit message:

Add note on switching device between rings

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/linux-install-with-ansible.md, after:

---
title: Deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux with Ansible
ms.reviewer:
description: Describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux using Ansible.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, linux, installation, deploy, uninstallation, puppet, ansible, linux, redhat, ubuntu, debian, sles, suse, centos
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux with Ansible

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Linux](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md)

This topic describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux using Ansible. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following tasks:

- [Download the onboarding package](#download-the-onboarding-package)
- [Create Ansible YAML files](#create-ansible-yaml-files)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [References](#references)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, please see [the main Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux page](microsoft-defender-atp-linux.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

- Ansible needs to be installed on at least on one computer (we will call it the master).
- SSH must be configured for an administrator account between the master and all clients, and it is recommended be configured with public key authentication.
- The following software must be installed on all clients:
  - curl
  - python-apt
  - unzip

- All hosts must be listed in the following format in the `/etc/ansible/hosts` file:

    ```bash
    [servers]
    host1 ansible_ssh_host=10.171.134.39
    host2 ansible_ssh_host=51.143.50.51
    ```

- Ping test:

    ```bash
    $ ansible -m ping all
    ```

## Download the onboarding package

Download the onboarding package from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Machine Management > Onboarding**.
2. In the first drop-down menu, select **Linux Server** as the operating system. In the second drop-down menu, select **Your preferred Linux configuration management tool** as the deployment method.
3. Select **Download onboarding package**. Save the file as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-linux-2.png)

4. From a command prompt, verify that you have the file. Extract the contents of the archive:

    ```bash
    $ ls -l
    total 8
    -rw-r--r-- 1 test  staff  4984 Feb 18 11:22 WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    $ unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    Archive:  WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    inflating: mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

## Create Ansible YAML files

Create subtask or role files that contribute to an actual task. First create the `download_copy_blob.yml` file under the `/etc/ansible/roles` directory:

- Copy the onboarding package to all client machines:

    ```bash
    - name: Copy the zip file
        copy:
            src:  /root/WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
            dest: /root/WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
            owner: root
            group: root
            mode: '0644'

    - name: Add Microsoft apt signing key
      apt_key:
        url: https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc
        state: present
      when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"
    ```

- Create the `setup.sh` script that operates on the onboarding file, in this example located in the `/root` directory:

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash
    # We assume WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip is stored in /root
    cd /root || exit 1
    # Unzip the archive and create the onboarding file
    mkdir -p /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/
    unzip WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip
    cp mdatp_onboard.json /etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
    ```

- Create the onboarding task, `onboarding_setup.yml`, under the `/etc/ansible/roles` directory:

    ```bash
    - name: Register mdatp_onboard.json
      stat: path=/etc/opt/microsoft/mdatp/mdatp_onboard.json
      register: mdatp_onboard

    - name: Copy the setup script file
        copy:
            src: /root/setup.sh
            dest: /root/setup.sh
            owner: root
            group: root
            mode: '0744'

    - name: Run a script to create the onboarding file
      script: /root/setup.sh
      when: not mdatp_onboard.stat.exists
    ```

- Add the Microsoft Defender ATP repository and key.

    Microsoft Defender ATP for Linux can be deployed from one of the following channels (denoted below as *[channel]*): *insiders-fast*, *insiders-slow*, or *prod*. Each of these channels corresponds to a Linux software repository.

    The choice of the channel determines the type and frequency of updates that are offered to your device. Devices in *insiders-fast* are the first ones to receive updates and new features, followed later by *insiders-slow* and lastly by *prod*.

    In order to preview new features and provide early feedback, it is recommended that you configure some devices in your enterprise to use either *insiders-fast* or *insiders-slow*.

    > [!WARNING]
    > Switching the channel after the initial installation requires the product to be reinstalled. To switch the product channel: uninstall the existing package, re-configure your device to use the new channel, and follow the steps in this document to install the package from the new location.

    Note your distribution and version and identify the closest entry for it under `https://packages.microsoft.com/config/`.

    In the following commands, replace *[distro]* and *[version]* with the information you've identified.

    > [!NOTE]
    > In case of Oracle Linux, replace *[distro]* with “rhel”.

        ```bash
        - name: Add Microsoft apt repository for MDATP
            apt_repository:
                repo: deb [arch=arm64,armhf,amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/prod [channel] main
                update_cache: yes
                state: present
                filename: microsoft-[channel].list
            when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

        - name: Add Microsoft APT key
            apt_key:
                keyserver: https://packages.microsoft.com/
                id: BC528686B50D79E339D3721CEB3E94ADBE1229CF
            when: ansible_os_family == "Debian"

        - name: Add  Microsoft yum repository for MDATP
            yum_repository:
                name: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
                description: Microsoft Defender ATP
                file: microsoft-[channel]
                baseurl: https://packages.microsoft.com/[distro]/[version]/[channel]/
                gpgcheck: yes
                enabled: Yes
            when: ansible_os_family == "RedHat"
        ```

- Create the actual install/uninstall YAML files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks`.

    - For apt-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        $ cat install_mdatp.yml
        - hosts: servers
            tasks:
                - include: ../roles/download_copy_blob.yml
                - include: ../roles/setup_blob.yml
                - include: ../roles/add_apt_repo.yml
                - apt:
                    name: mdatp
                    state: latest
                    update_cache: yes
        ```

        ```bash
        $ cat uninstall_mdatp.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - apt:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

    - For yum-based distributions use the following YAML file:

        ```bash
        $ cat install_mdatp_yum.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - include: ../roles/download_copy_blob.yml
            - include: ../roles/setup_blob.yml
            - include: ../roles/add_yum_repo.yml
            - yum:
                name: mdatp
                state: latest
                enablerepo: packages-microsoft-com-prod-[channel]
        ```

        ```bash
        $ cat uninstall_mdatp_yum.yml
        - hosts: servers
        tasks:
            - yum:
                name: mdatp
                state: absent
        ```

## Deployment

Now run the tasks files under `/etc/ansible/playbooks/`.

- Installation:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/install_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> When the product starts for the first time, it downloads the latest antimalware definitions. Depending on your Internet connection, this can take up to a few minutes.

- Validation/configuration:

    ```bash
    $ ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp --connectivity-test' all
    $ ansible -m shell -a 'mdatp --health' all
    ```

- Uninstallation:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook /etc/ansible/playbooks/uninstall_mdatp.yml -i /etc/ansible/hosts
    ```

## Log installation issues

See [Log installation issues](linux-resources.md#log-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## References

- [Add or remove YUM repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.3/yum_repository_module.html)

- [Manage packages with the yum package manager](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/yum_module.html)

- [Add and remove APT repositories](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/apt_repository_module.html)

- [Manage apt-packages](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/modules/apt_module.html)
