windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-whatsnew.md, before:

---
title: What's new in Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection for Mac
description: List of major changes for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, macos, whatsnew
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: security
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# What's new in Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection for Mac

## 100.86.91

> [!CAUTION]
> To ensure the most complete protection for your macOS devices and in alignment with Apple stopping delivery of macOS native security updates to OS versions older than [current – 2], MDATP for Mac deployment and updates will no longer be supported on macOS Sierra [10.12]. MDATP for Mac updates and enhancements will be delivered to devices running versions Catalina [10.15], Mojave [10.14], and High Sierra [10.13]. 
>
> If you already have MDATP for Mac deployed to your Sierra [10.12] devices, please upgrade to the latest macOS version to eliminate risks of losing protection.

- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.83.73

- Added more controls for IT administrators around [management of exclusions](mac-preferences.md#exclusion-merge-policy), [management of threat type settings](mac-preferences.md#threat-type-settings-merge-policy), and [disallowed threat actions](mac-preferences.md#disallowed-threat-actions)
- When Full Disk Access is not enabled on the device, a warning is now displayed in the status menu
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.82.60

- Addressed an issue where the product fails to start following a definition update.

## 100.80.42

- Bug fixes

## 100.79.42

- Fixed an issue where Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac was sometimes interfering with Time Machine
- Added a new switch to the command-line utility for testing the connectivity with the backend service
  ```bash
  $ mdatp --connectivity-test
  ```
- Added ability to view the full threat history in the user interface (can be accessed from the **Protection history** view)
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.72.15

- Bug fixes

## 100.70.99

- Addressed an issue that impacts the ability of some users to upgrade to macOS Catalina when real-time protection is enabled. This sporadic issue was caused by Microsoft Defender ATP locking files within Catalina upgrade package while scanning them for threats, which led to failures in the upgrade sequence.

## 100.68.99

- Added the ability to configure the antivirus functionality to run in [passive mode](mac-preferences.md#enable--disable-passive-mode)
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.65.28

- Added support for macOS Catalina

  > [!CAUTION]
  > macOS 10.15 (Catalina) contains new security and privacy enhancements. Beginning with this version, by default, applications are not able to access certain locations on disk (such as Documents, Downloads, Desktop, etc.) without explicit consent. In the absence of this consent, Microsoft Defender ATP is not able to fully protect your device.
  >
  > The mechanism for granting this consent depends on how you deployed Microsoft Defender ATP:
  >
  > - For manual deployments, see the updated instructions in the [Manual deployment](mac-install-manually.md#how-to-allow-full-disk-access) topic.
  > - For managed deployments, see the updated instructions in the [JAMF-based deployment](mac-install-with-jamf.md#privacy-preferences-policy-control) and [Microsoft Intune-based deployment](mac-install-with-intune.md#create-system-configuration-profiles) topics.

- Performance improvements & bug fixes

Commit message:

Add note on kext -> system extension work

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-whatsnew.md, after:

---
title: What's new in Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection for Mac
description: List of major changes for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, macos, whatsnew
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: security
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# What's new in Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection for Mac

> [!NOTE]
> In alignment with macOS evolution, we are preparing a Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac update that leverages system extensions instead of kernel extensions.
> In the meantime, starting with macOS Catalina update 10.15.4, Apple introduced a user facing *Legacy System Extension* warning to signal applications that rely on kernel extensions.
> If you previously whitelisted the Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac kernel extension as part of your remote deployment, that warning should not be presented to the end user. If you have not previously deployed a policy to whitelist our kernel extension, your users will be presented with the warning.
> To proactively silence the warning, you can still deploy a configuration to whitelist the kernel extension. Refer to the instructions in the [JAMF-based deployment](mac-install-with-jamf.md#approved-kernel-extension) and [Microsoft Intune-based deployment](mac-install-with-intune.md#create-system-configuration-profiles) topics.

## 100.86.91

> [!CAUTION]
> To ensure the most complete protection for your macOS devices and in alignment with Apple stopping delivery of macOS native security updates to OS versions older than [current – 2], MDATP for Mac deployment and updates will no longer be supported on macOS Sierra [10.12]. MDATP for Mac updates and enhancements will be delivered to devices running versions Catalina [10.15], Mojave [10.14], and High Sierra [10.13]. 
>
> If you already have MDATP for Mac deployed to your Sierra [10.12] devices, please upgrade to the latest macOS version to eliminate risks of losing protection.

- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.83.73

- Added more controls for IT administrators around [management of exclusions](mac-preferences.md#exclusion-merge-policy), [management of threat type settings](mac-preferences.md#threat-type-settings-merge-policy), and [disallowed threat actions](mac-preferences.md#disallowed-threat-actions)
- When Full Disk Access is not enabled on the device, a warning is now displayed in the status menu
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.82.60

- Addressed an issue where the product fails to start following a definition update.

## 100.80.42

- Bug fixes

## 100.79.42

- Fixed an issue where Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac was sometimes interfering with Time Machine
- Added a new switch to the command-line utility for testing the connectivity with the backend service
  ```bash
  $ mdatp --connectivity-test
  ```
- Added ability to view the full threat history in the user interface (can be accessed from the **Protection history** view)
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.72.15

- Bug fixes

## 100.70.99

- Addressed an issue that impacts the ability of some users to upgrade to macOS Catalina when real-time protection is enabled. This sporadic issue was caused by Microsoft Defender ATP locking files within Catalina upgrade package while scanning them for threats, which led to failures in the upgrade sequence.

## 100.68.99

- Added the ability to configure the antivirus functionality to run in [passive mode](mac-preferences.md#enable--disable-passive-mode)
- Performance improvements & bug fixes

## 100.65.28

- Added support for macOS Catalina

  > [!CAUTION]
  > macOS 10.15 (Catalina) contains new security and privacy enhancements. Beginning with this version, by default, applications are not able to access certain locations on disk (such as Documents, Downloads, Desktop, etc.) without explicit consent. In the absence of this consent, Microsoft Defender ATP is not able to fully protect your device.
  >
  > The mechanism for granting this consent depends on how you deployed Microsoft Defender ATP:
  >
  > - For manual deployments, see the updated instructions in the [Manual deployment](mac-install-manually.md#how-to-allow-full-disk-access) topic.
  > - For managed deployments, see the updated instructions in the [JAMF-based deployment](mac-install-with-jamf.md#privacy-preferences-policy-control) and [Microsoft Intune-based deployment](mac-install-with-intune.md#create-system-configuration-profiles) topics.

- Performance improvements & bug fixes
