windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-schedule-scan-atp.md, before:

---
title: How to schedule scans with MDATP for macOS
description: Learn how to schedule an automatic scanning time for Microsoft Defender ATP in macOS to better protect your organization's assets.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, scans, antivirus
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Schedule scans with Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac

While you can start a threat scan at any time with Microsoft Defender ATP, your enterprise might benefit from scheduled or timed scans. For example, you can schedule a scan to run at the beginning of every workday or week. Create a scanning schedule using launchd on a macOS computer. 

## Schedule a scan with launchd

1. Create a new .xml file. Use the following example to create your scanning schedule file.

    ```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN"
      "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
    <plist version="1.0">
    <dict>
        <key>Label</key>
        <string>com.microsoft.wdav.schedquickscan</string>
        <key>ProgramArguments</key>
        <array>
            <string>sh</string>
            <string>-c</string>
            <string>/usr/local/bin/mdatp --scan --quick</string>
        </array>
        <key>RunAtLoad</key>
        <true/>
        <key>StartCalendarInterval</key>
        <dict>
            <key>Day</key>
            <integer>3</integer>
            <key>Hour</key>
            <integer>2</integer>
            <key>Minute</key>
            <integer>0</integer>
            <key>Weekday</key>
            <integer>5</integer>
        </dict>
        <key>StartInterval</key>
        <integer>604800</integer>
        <key>WorkingDirectory</key>
        <string>/usr/local/bin/</string>
    </dict>
    </plist>
     ```

2. Save the file as a program configuration file (.plist) with the name com.microsoft.wdav.schedquickscan.plist.

    >[!NOTE]
    >To change a quick scan to a full scan, use /usr/local/bin/mdatp --scan –full in the array string and update your .plist filename.

3. Search for, and then open **Terminal**.
4. To load your file into **launchd**, enter the following commands:

    ```bash
    launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/<your file name.plist>
    ```
    ```bash
    launchctl start <your file name>
    ```

5. Your scheduled scan runs at the date, time, and frequency you defined in your .plist file. In the example, the scan runs at 2:00 AM every seven days on a Friday, with the StartInterval using 604,800 seconds for one week.

 > [!NOTE]
 > Agents executed with launchd will not run at the scheduled time if the computer is asleep, but will run once the computer is awake. If the computer is off, the scan will not run until the computer is on at the next scheduled time.

Commit message:

copyedits + info on scheduling scan w Intune

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-schedule-scan-atp.md, after:

---
title: How to schedule scans with MDATP for macOS
description: Learn how to schedule an automatic scanning time for Microsoft Defender ATP in macOS to better protect your organization's assets.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, scans, antivirus
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Schedule scans with Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac

While you can start a threat scan at any time with Microsoft Defender ATP, your enterprise might benefit from scheduled or timed scans. For example, you can schedule a scan to run at the beginning of every workday or week. Create a scanning schedule using the *launchd* daemon on a macOS device.

## Schedule a scan with *launchd*

1. The following code shows the schema you need to use to schedule a scan. Open a text editor and use this example as a guide for your own scheduled scan file.

    For more information on the *.plist* file format used here, see [About Information Property List Files](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/AboutInformationPropertyListFiles.html) at the official Apple developer website.

    ```XML
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN"
      "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
    <plist version="1.0">
    <dict>
        <key>Label</key>
        <string>com.microsoft.wdav.schedquickscan</string>
        <key>ProgramArguments</key>
        <array>
            <string>sh</string>
            <string>-c</string>
            <string>/usr/local/bin/mdatp --scan --quick</string>
        </array>
        <key>RunAtLoad</key>
        <true/>
        <key>StartCalendarInterval</key>
        <dict>
            <key>Day</key>
            <integer>3</integer>
            <key>Hour</key>
            <integer>2</integer>
            <key>Minute</key>
            <integer>0</integer>
            <key>Weekday</key>
            <integer>5</integer>
        </dict>
        <key>StartInterval</key>
        <integer>604800</integer>
        <key>WorkingDirectory</key>
        <string>/usr/local/bin/</string>
    </dict>
    </plist>
     ```

2. Save the file as *com.microsoft.wdav.schedquickscan.plist*.

    > [!TIP]
    > To run a full scan instead of a quick scan, change line 8 to read `/usr/local/bin/mdatp --scan --full` and save the file as *com.microsoft.wdav.sched**full**scan.plist* instead of *com.microsoft.wdav.sched**quick**scan.plist*.

3. Open **Terminal**.
4. Enter the following commands to load your file:

    ```bash
    launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/<your file name.plist>
    launchctl start <your file name>
    ```

5. Your scheduled scan will run at the date, time, and frequency you defined in your p-list. In the example, the scan runs at 2:00 AM every Friday. 

    Note that the `StartInterval` value is in seconds, indicating that scans should run every 604,800 seconds (one week), while the `Weekday` value of `StartCalendarInterval` uses an integer to indicate the fifth day of the week, or Friday.

 > [!IMPORTANT]
 > Agents executed with *launchd* will not run at the scheduled time while the device is asleep. They will instead run once the device resumes from sleep mode.
 >
 > If the device is turned off, the scan will run at the next scheduled scan time.

## Schedule a scan with Intune

You can also schedule scans with Microsoft Intune. The [runMDATPQuickScan.sh](https://github.com/microsoft/shell-intune-samples/tree/master/Misc/MDATP#runmdatpquickscansh) shell script available at [Scripts for Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection](https://github.com/microsoft/shell-intune-samples/tree/master/Misc/MDATP) will persist when the device resumes from sleep mode. See [Use shell scripts on macOS devices in Intune](https://docs.microsoft.com/mem/intune/apps/macos-shell-scripts) for more detailed instructions on how to use this script in your enterprise.
