windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-install-manually.md, before:

---
title: Manual deployment for Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS
description: Install Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS manually, from the command line.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, deploy, uninstallation, intune, jamf, macos, catalina, mojave, high sierra
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Manual deployment for Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for macOS](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md)

This topic describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS manually. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following steps:
- [Download installation and onboarding packages](#download-installation-and-onboarding-packages)
- [Application installation](#application-installation)
- [Client configuration](#client-configuration)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, see [the main Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS page](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

## Download installation and onboarding packages

Download the installation and onboarding packages from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Machine Management > Onboarding**.
2. In Section 1 of the page, set operating system to **macOS** and Deployment method to **Local script**.
3. In Section 2 of the page, select **Download installation package**. Save it as wdav.pkg to a local directory.
4. In Section 2 of the page, select **Download onboarding package**. Save it as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip to the same directory.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-page.png)

5. From a command prompt, verify that you have the two files.
    
## Application installation

To complete this process, you must have admin privileges on the machine.

1. Navigate to the downloaded wdav.pkg in Finder and open it.

    ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-28-AppInstall.png)

2. Select **Continue**, agree with the License terms, and enter the password when prompted.

    ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-29-AppInstallLogin.png)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > You will be prompted to allow a driver from Microsoft to be installed (either "System Extension Blocked" or "Installation is on hold" or both. The driver must be allowed to be installed.

   ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-30-SystemExtension.png)

3. Select **Open Security Preferences**  or **Open System Preferences > Security & Privacy**. Select **Allow**:

    ![Security and privacy window screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-31-SecurityPrivacySettings.png)

The installation proceeds.

> [!CAUTION]
> If you don't select **Allow**, the installation will proceed after 5 minutes. Defender ATP will be loaded, but some features, such as real-time protection, will be disabled. See [Troubleshoot kernel extension issues](mac-support-kext.md) for information on how to resolve this.

> [!NOTE]
> macOS may request to reboot the machine upon the first installation of Microsoft Defender. Real-time protection will not be available until the machine is rebooted.

## Client configuration

1. Copy wdav.pkg and MicrosoftDefenderATPOnboardingMacOs.py to the machine where you deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS.

    The client machine is not associated with orgId. Note that the *orgId* attribute is blank.

    ```bash
    $ mdatp --health orgId
    ```

2. Run the Python script to install the configuration file:

    ```bash
    $ /usr/bin/python MicrosoftDefenderATPOnboardingMacOs.py
    Generating /Library/Application Support/Microsoft/Defender/com.microsoft.wdav.atp.plist ... (You may be required to enter sudos password)
    ```

3. Verify that the machine is now associated with your organization and reports a valid *orgId*:

    ```bash
    $ mdatp --health orgId
    E6875323-A6C0-4C60-87AD-114BBE7439B8
    ```

After installation, you'll see the Microsoft Defender icon in the macOS status bar in the top-right corner.

   ![Microsoft Defender icon in status bar screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-Icon-Bar.png)
   

## How to Allow Full Disk Access

> [!CAUTION]
> macOS 10.15 (Catalina) contains new security and privacy enhancements. Beginning with this version, by default, applications are not able to access certain locations on disk (such as Documents, Downloads, Desktop, etc.) without explicit consent. In the absence of this consent, Microsoft Defender ATP is not able to fully protect your device.

To grant consent, open System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> Privacy -> Full Disk Access. Click the lock icon to make changes (bottom of the dialog box). Select Microsoft Defender ATP.

## Logging installation issues

See [Logging installation issues](mac-resources.md#logging-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## Uninstallation

See [Uninstalling](mac-resources.md#uninstalling) for details on how to remove Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS from client devices.

Commit message:

Fourth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-install-manually.md, after:

---
title: Manual deployment for Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS
description: Install Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS manually, from the command line.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, deploy, uninstallation, intune, jamf, macos, catalina, mojave, high sierra
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Manual deployment for Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for macOS](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md)

This topic describes how to deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS manually. A successful deployment requires the completion of all of the following steps:
- [Download installation and onboarding packages](#download-installation-and-onboarding-packages)
- [Application installation](#application-installation)
- [Client configuration](#client-configuration)

## Prerequisites and system requirements

Before you get started, see [the main Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS page](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md) for a description of prerequisites and system requirements for the current software version.

## Download installation and onboarding packages

Download the installation and onboarding packages from Microsoft Defender Security Center:

1. In Microsoft Defender Security Center, go to **Settings > Device Management > Onboarding**.
2. In Section 1 of the page, set operating system to **macOS** and Deployment method to **Local script**.
3. In Section 2 of the page, select **Download installation package**. Save it as wdav.pkg to a local directory.
4. In Section 2 of the page, select **Download onboarding package**. Save it as WindowsDefenderATPOnboardingPackage.zip to the same directory.

    ![Microsoft Defender Security Center screenshot](images/atp-portal-onboarding-page.png)

5. From a command prompt, verify that you have the two files.
    
## Application installation

To complete this process, you must have admin privileges on the device.

1. Navigate to the downloaded wdav.pkg in Finder and open it.

    ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-28-AppInstall.png)

2. Select **Continue**, agree with the License terms, and enter the password when prompted.

    ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-29-AppInstallLogin.png)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > You will be prompted to allow a driver from Microsoft to be installed (either "System Extension Blocked" or "Installation is on hold" or both. The driver must be allowed to be installed.

   ![App install screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-30-SystemExtension.png)

3. Select **Open Security Preferences**  or **Open System Preferences > Security & Privacy**. Select **Allow**:

    ![Security and privacy window screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-31-SecurityPrivacySettings.png)

The installation proceeds.

> [!CAUTION]
> If you don't select **Allow**, the installation will proceed after 5 minutes. Defender ATP will be loaded, but some features, such as real-time protection, will be disabled. See [Troubleshoot kernel extension issues](mac-support-kext.md) for information on how to resolve this.

> [!NOTE]
> macOS may request to reboot the device upon the first installation of Microsoft Defender. Real-time protection will not be available until the device is rebooted.

## Client configuration

1. Copy wdav.pkg and MicrosoftDefenderATPOnboardingMacOs.py to the device where you deploy Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS.

    The client device is not associated with orgId. Note that the *orgId* attribute is blank.

    ```bash
    $ mdatp --health orgId
    ```

2. Run the Python script to install the configuration file:

    ```bash
    $ /usr/bin/python MicrosoftDefenderATPOnboardingMacOs.py
    Generating /Library/Application Support/Microsoft/Defender/com.microsoft.wdav.atp.plist ... (You may be required to enter sudos password)
    ```

3. Verify that the device is now associated with your organization and reports a valid *orgId*:

    ```bash
    $ mdatp --health orgId
    E6875323-A6C0-4C60-87AD-114BBE7439B8
    ```

After installation, you'll see the Microsoft Defender icon in the macOS status bar in the top-right corner.

   ![Microsoft Defender icon in status bar screenshot](../windows-defender-antivirus/images/MDATP-Icon-Bar.png)
   

## How to Allow Full Disk Access

> [!CAUTION]
> macOS 10.15 (Catalina) contains new security and privacy enhancements. Beginning with this version, by default, applications are not able to access certain locations on disk (such as Documents, Downloads, Desktop, etc.) without explicit consent. In the absence of this consent, Microsoft Defender ATP is not able to fully protect your device.

To grant consent, open System Preferences -> Security & Privacy -> Privacy -> Full Disk Access. Click the lock icon to make changes (bottom of the dialog box). Select Microsoft Defender ATP.

## Logging installation issues

See [Logging installation issues](mac-resources.md#logging-installation-issues) for more information on how to find the automatically generated log that is created by the installer when an error occurs.

## Uninstallation

See [Uninstalling](mac-resources.md#uninstalling) for details on how to remove Microsoft Defender ATP for macOS from client devices.
