windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-resources.md, before:

---
title: Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac
description: Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac, including how to uninstall it, how to collect diagnostic logs, CLI commands, and known issues with the product.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, deploy, uninstallation, intune, jamf, macos, catalina, mojave, high sierra
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Mac](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md)

## Collecting diagnostic information

If you can reproduce a problem, please increase the logging level, run the system for some time, and restore the logging level to the default.

1. Increase logging level:

   ```bash
   $ mdatp --log-level verbose
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   Operation succeeded
   ```

2. Reproduce the problem

3. Run `sudo mdatp --diagnostic --create` to backup Microsoft Defender ATP's logs. The files will be stored inside of a .zip archive. This command will also print out the file path to the backup after the operation succeeds.

   ```bash
   $ sudo mdatp --diagnostic --create
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   ```

4. Restore logging level:

   ```bash
   $ mdatp --log-level info
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   Operation succeeded
   ```

## Logging installation issues

If an error occurs during installation, the installer will only report a general failure.

The detailed log will be saved to /Library/Logs/Microsoft/mdatp/install.log. If you experience issues during installation, send us this file so we can help diagnose the cause.

## Uninstalling

There are several ways to uninstall Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac. Please note that while centrally managed uninstall is available on JAMF, it is not yet available for Microsoft Intune.

### Interactive uninstallation

- Open **Finder > Applications**. Right click on **Microsoft Defender ATP > Move to Trash**.

### From the command line

- ```sudo rm -rf '/Applications/Microsoft Defender ATP.app'```

## Configuring from the command line

Important tasks, such as controlling product settings and triggering on-demand scans, can be done from the command line:

|Group        |Scenario                                   |Command                                                                |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Configuration|Turn on/off real-time protection           |`mdatp --config realTimeProtectionEnabled [true/false]`                |
|Configuration|Turn on/off cloud protection               |`mdatp --config cloudEnabled [true/false]`                             |
|Configuration|Turn on/off product diagnostics            |`mdatp --config cloudDiagnosticEnabled [true/false]`                               |
|Configuration|Turn on/off automatic sample submission    |`mdatp --config cloudAutomaticSampleSubmission [true/false]`           |
|Configuration|Turn on PUA protection                     |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application block`|
|Configuration|Turn off PUA protection                    |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application off`  |
|Configuration|Turn on audit mode for PUA protection      |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application audit`|
|Diagnostics  |Change the log level                       |`mdatp --log-level [error/warning/info/verbose]`                       |
|Diagnostics  |Generate diagnostic logs                   |`mdatp --diagnostic --create`                                                   |
|Health       |Check the product's health                 |`mdatp --health`                                                       |
|Protection   |Scan a path                                |`mdatp --scan --path [path]`                                           |
|Protection   |Do a quick scan                            |`mdatp --scan --quick`                                                 |
|Protection   |Do a full scan                             |`mdatp --scan --full`                                                  |
|Protection   |Cancel an ongoing on-demand scan           |`mdatp --scan --cancel`                                                |
|Protection   |Request a security intelligence update     |`mdatp --definition-update`                                            |
|EDR          |Turn on/off EDR preview for Mac            |`mdatp --edr --early-preview [true/false]` OR `mdatp --edr --earlyPreview [true/false]` for versions earlier than 100.78.0                                |
|EDR          |Add group tag to machine. EDR tags are used for managing machine groups. For more information, please visit https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/machine-groups |`mdatp --edr --set-tag GROUP [name]` |
|EDR          |Remove group tag from machine              |`mdatp --edr --remove-tag [name]`                                            |

## Microsoft Defender ATP portal information

In the Microsoft Defender ATP portal, you'll see two categories of information.

Antivirus alerts, including:

  - Severity
  - Scan type
  - Device information (hostname, machine identifier, tenant identifier, app version, and OS type)
  - File information (name, path, size, and hash)
  - Threat information (name, type, and state)

Device information, including:

  - Machine identifier
  - Tenant identifier
  - App version
  - Hostname
  - OS type
  - OS version
  - Computer model
  - Processor architecture
  - Whether the device is a virtual machine
  
  > [!NOTE]
  > Certain device information might be subject to upcoming releases. To send us feedback, use the Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac app and select **Help** > **Send feedback** on your device. Optionally, use the **Feedback** button in the Microsoft Defender Security Center.

Commit message:

add Mac quarantine location, ref ##6078
Signed-off-by: Thomas Sjögren <konstruktoid@users.noreply.github.com>

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/mac-resources.md, after:

---
title: Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac
description: Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac, including how to uninstall it, how to collect diagnostic logs, CLI commands, and known issues with the product.
keywords: microsoft, defender, atp, mac, installation, deploy, uninstallation, intune, jamf, macos, catalina, mojave, high sierra
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: dansimp
author: dansimp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Resources for Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac

**Applies to:**

- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP) for Mac](microsoft-defender-atp-mac.md)

## Collecting diagnostic information

If you can reproduce a problem, please increase the logging level, run the system for some time, and restore the logging level to the default.

1. Increase logging level:

   ```bash
   $ mdatp --log-level verbose
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   Operation succeeded
   ```

2. Reproduce the problem

3. Run `sudo mdatp --diagnostic --create` to backup Microsoft Defender ATP's logs. The files will be stored inside of a .zip archive. This command will also print out the file path to the backup after the operation succeeds.

   ```bash
   $ sudo mdatp --diagnostic --create
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   ```

4. Restore logging level:

   ```bash
   $ mdatp --log-level info
   Creating connection to daemon
   Connection established
   Operation succeeded
   ```

## Logging installation issues

If an error occurs during installation, the installer will only report a general failure.

The detailed log will be saved to `/Library/Logs/Microsoft/mdatp/install.log`. If you experience issues during installation, send us this file so we can help diagnose the cause.

## Uninstalling

There are several ways to uninstall Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac. Please note that while centrally managed uninstall is available on JAMF, it is not yet available for Microsoft Intune.

### Interactive uninstallation

- Open **Finder > Applications**. Right click on **Microsoft Defender ATP > Move to Trash**.

### From the command line

- ```sudo rm -rf '/Applications/Microsoft Defender ATP.app'```
- ```sudo rm -rf '/Library/Application Support/Microsoft/Defender/'```

## Configuring from the command line

Important tasks, such as controlling product settings and triggering on-demand scans, can be done from the command line:

|Group        |Scenario                                   |Command                                                                |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Configuration|Turn on/off real-time protection           |`mdatp --config realTimeProtectionEnabled [true/false]`                |
|Configuration|Turn on/off cloud protection               |`mdatp --config cloudEnabled [true/false]`                             |
|Configuration|Turn on/off product diagnostics            |`mdatp --config cloudDiagnosticEnabled [true/false]`                               |
|Configuration|Turn on/off automatic sample submission    |`mdatp --config cloudAutomaticSampleSubmission [true/false]`           |
|Configuration|Turn on PUA protection                     |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application block`|
|Configuration|Turn off PUA protection                    |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application off`  |
|Configuration|Turn on audit mode for PUA protection      |`mdatp --threat --type-handling potentially_unwanted_application audit`|
|Diagnostics  |Change the log level                       |`mdatp --log-level [error/warning/info/verbose]`                       |
|Diagnostics  |Generate diagnostic logs                   |`mdatp --diagnostic --create`                                                   |
|Health       |Check the product's health                 |`mdatp --health`                                                       |
|Protection   |Scan a path                                |`mdatp --scan --path [path]`                                           |
|Protection   |Do a quick scan                            |`mdatp --scan --quick`                                                 |
|Protection   |Do a full scan                             |`mdatp --scan --full`                                                  |
|Protection   |Cancel an ongoing on-demand scan           |`mdatp --scan --cancel`                                                |
|Protection   |Request a security intelligence update     |`mdatp --definition-update`                                            |
|EDR          |Turn on/off EDR preview for Mac            |`mdatp --edr --early-preview [true/false]` OR `mdatp --edr --earlyPreview [true/false]` for versions earlier than 100.78.0                                |
|EDR          |Add group tag to machine. EDR tags are used for managing machine groups. For more information, please visit https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/machine-groups |`mdatp --edr --set-tag GROUP [name]` |
|EDR          |Remove group tag from machine              |`mdatp --edr --remove-tag [name]`                                            |

## Client Microsoft Defender ATP quarantine directory

`/Library/Application Support/Microsoft/Defender/quarantine/` contains the files quarantined by `mdatp`. The files are named after the threat trackingId. The current trackingIds is shown with `mdatp --threat --list --pretty`.

## Microsoft Defender ATP portal information

In the Microsoft Defender ATP portal, you'll see two categories of information.

Antivirus alerts, including:

  - Severity
  - Scan type
  - Device information (hostname, machine identifier, tenant identifier, app version, and OS type)
  - File information (name, path, size, and hash)
  - Threat information (name, type, and state)

Device information, including:

  - Machine identifier
  - Tenant identifier
  - App version
  - Hostname
  - OS type
  - OS version
  - Computer model
  - Processor architecture
  - Whether the device is a virtual machine

  > [!NOTE]
  > Certain device information might be subject to upcoming releases. To send us feedback, use the Microsoft Defender ATP for Mac app and select **Help** > **Send feedback** on your device. Optionally, use the **Feedback** button in the Microsoft Defender Security Center.
