windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/manage-edr.md, before:

---
title: Manage endpoint detection and response capabilities
ms.reviewer: 
description: 
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Manage endpoint detection and response capabilities

Manage the alerts queue, investigate machines in the machines list, take response actions, and hunt for possible threats in your organization using advanced hunting.


## In this section
Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[Alerts queue](alerts-queue-endpoint-detection-response.md)| View the alerts surfaced in Microsoft Defender Security Center.
[Machines list](machines-view-overview.md) | Learn how you can view and manage the machines list, manage machine groups, and investigate machine related alerts. 
[Take response actions](response-actions.md)| Take response actions on machines and files to quickly respond to detected attacks and contain threats.
[Query data using advanced hunting](advanced-hunting-query-language.md)| Proactively hunt for possible threats across your organization using a powerful search and query tool.

Commit message:

Fourth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/manage-edr.md, after:

---
title: Manage endpoint detection and response capabilities
ms.reviewer: 
description: 
keywords: 
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---

# Manage endpoint detection and response capabilities

Manage the alerts queue, investigate devices in the devices list, take response actions, and hunt for possible threats in your organization using advanced hunting.


## In this section
Topic | Description 
:---|:---
[Alerts queue](alerts-queue-endpoint-detection-response.md)| View the alerts surfaced in Microsoft Defender Security Center.
[Devices list](machines-view-overview.md) | Learn how you can view and manage the devices list, manage device groups, and investigate device related alerts. 
[Take response actions](response-actions.md)| Take response actions on devices and files to quickly respond to detected attacks and contain threats.
[Query data using advanced hunting](advanced-hunting-query-language.md)| Proactively hunt for possible threats across your organization using a powerful search and query tool.
