windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-part2.md, before:

---
title: Part 2 - Configure settings and exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP and Symantec Endpoint Protection
description: Part 2 - Make the switch from Symantec to Microsoft Defender ATP
keywords: migration, windows defender advanced threat protection, atp, edr
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: deniseb
author: denisebmsft
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Migrate from Symantec - Part 2: Configure settings and exclusions

| [Overview](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-migration.md)  | [Part 1](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-part1.md)  |Part 2 <br/>*You are here!*| [Part 3](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-part2.md)| [Post migration<br/>management](microsoft-defender-atp-post-migration-management.md) |
|--|--|--|--|--|

Part 2 of [migrating from Symantec to Microsoft Defender ATP](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-migration.md#planning-for-migration-the-process-at-a-high-level) includes the following steps:
1. [Set Microsoft Defender ATP to passive mode](#set-microsoft-defender-atp-to-passive-mode).
2. [Re-enable Microsoft Defender Antivirus](#re-enable-microsoft-defender-antivirus).
3. [Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec](#add-microsoft-defender-atp-edr-to-the-exclusion-list-for-symantec).
4. [Add Symantec to your Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list](#add-symantec-to-your-microsoft-defender-atp-edr-exclusion-list). 

## Set Microsoft Defender ATP to passive mode

## Re-enable Microsoft Defender Antivirus

## Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec

Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec (or any other security products).

## Add Symantec to your Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list

Add Symantec and your other security solutions to the Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list.


## Related articles

[Microsoft Defender ATP deployment guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/deployment-phases)

Commit message:

more work on migration guide

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-part2.md, after:

---
title: Part 2 - Configure settings and exclusions for Microsoft Defender ATP and Symantec Endpoint Protection
description: Part 2 - Make the switch from Symantec to Microsoft Defender ATP
keywords: migration, windows defender advanced threat protection, atp, edr
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: deniseb
author: denisebmsft
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Migrate from Symantec - Part 2: Configure settings and exclusions

Welcome to Part 2 of [migrating from Symantec to Microsoft Defender ATP](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-migration.md#planning-for-migration-the-process-at-a-high-level). This migration phase includes the following steps:
1. [Set Microsoft Defender ATP to passive mode](#set-microsoft-defender-atp-to-passive-mode).
2. [Re-enable Microsoft Defender Antivirus](#re-enable-microsoft-defender-antivirus).
3. [Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec](#add-microsoft-defender-atp-edr-to-the-exclusion-list-for-symantec).
4. [Add Symantec to your Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list](#add-symantec-to-your-microsoft-defender-atp-edr-exclusion-list). 

## Set Microsoft Defender ATP to passive mode

## Re-enable Microsoft Defender Antivirus

## Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec

Add Microsoft Defender ATP EDR to the exclusion list for Symantec (or any other security products).

## Add Symantec to your Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list

Add Symantec and your other security solutions to the Microsoft Defender ATP EDR exclusion list.

Congratulations! You have completed part 1 of [migrating from Symantec to Microsoft Defender ATP](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-migration.md#planning-for-migration-the-process-at-a-high-level)!


## Next step

- [Proceed to Part 3: Finish making the switch to Microsoft Defender ATP](symantec-to-microsoft-defender-atp-part3.md)
