windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/tvm-remediation.md, before:

---
title: Remediation and exception
description: Remediate security weaknesses and fill exceptions by integrating Microsoft Intune and Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager. 
keywords: microsoft defender atp tvm remediation, mdatp tvm, threat & vulnerability management, threat & vulnerability management remediation, tvm remediation intune, tvm remediation sccm
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# Remediation activities and exceptions

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-portaloverview-abovefoldlink)

>[!NOTE]
>To use this capability, enable your Microsoft Intune connections. Navigate to **Settings** > **General** > **Advanced features**. Scroll down and look for **Microsoft Intune connection**. By default, the toggle is turned off. Turn your **Microsoft Intune connection** toggle on.

After your organization's cybersecurity weaknesses are identified and mapped to actionable [security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md), start creating security tasks through the integration with Microsoft Intune where remediation tickets are created.

Lower your organization's exposure from vulnerabilities and increase your security configuration by remediating the security recommendations.

## Navigate to the Remediation page

You can access the Remediation page a few different ways:

- Threat & Vulnerability Management navigation menu in the [Microsoft Defender Security Center](portal-overview.md)
- Top remediation activities card in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)

### Navigation menu

Go to the Threat & Vulnerability Management navigation menu and select **Remediation** to open up the list of remediation activities and exceptions found in your organization.

### Top remediation activities in the dashboard

View **Top remediation activities** in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md). Select any of the entries to go to the **Remediation** page. You can mark the remediation activity as completed after the IT admin team remediates the task.

![Screenshot of the remediation page flyout for a software which reached end-of-support](images/tvm-remediation-activities-card.png)

## Remediation activities

When you [submit a remediation request](tvm-security-recommendation.md#request-remediation) from the [Security recommendations page](tvm-security-recommendation.md), it kicks-off a remediation activity. A security task is created which will be tracked in the Threat & Vulnerability Management **Remediation** page, and a remediation ticket is created in Microsoft Intune.

Once you are in the Remediation page, select the remediation activity that you want to view. You can follow the remediation steps, track progress, view the related recommendation, export to CSV, or mark as complete.
![Screenshot of the remediation page flyout for a software which reached end-of-support](images/remediation_flyouteolsw.png)

## Exceptions

When you [file for an exception](tvm-security-recommendation.md#file-for-exception) from the [Security recommendations page](tvm-security-recommendation.md), you create an exception  for that security recommendation. You can file exceptions to exclude certain recommendation from showing up in reports and affecting your [configuration score](configuration-score.md). 

The exceptions you've filed will show up in the **Remediation** page, in the **Exceptions** tab. You can filter your view based on exception justification, type, and status.  

![Screenshot of exception tab and filters](images/tvm-exception-filters.png)

### Exception actions and statuses

You can take the following actions on an exception:

- Cancel - You can cancel the exceptions you've filed any time
- Resurface - Your exception automatically becomes void and resurfaces in the security recommendation list when dynamic environmental factors change, which adversely affect the exposure impact associated with a recommendation that had previously been excluded

The following statuses will be a part of an exception:

- **Canceled** - The exception has been canceled and is no longer in effect  
- **Expired** - The exception that you've filed is no longer in effect
- **In effect** - The exception that you've filed is in progress

### Exception impact on scores

Creating an exception can potentially affect the Exposure Score (for both types of weaknesses) and Configuration Score (for configurations) of your organization in the following manner:

- **No impact** - Removes the recommendation from the lists (which can be reverse through filters), but will not affect the scores
- **Mitigation-like impact** - As if the recommendation was mitigated (and scores will be adjusted accordingly) when you select it as a compensating control.
- **Hybrid** - Provides visibility on both No impact and Mitigation-like impact. It shows both the Exposure Score and Configuration Score results out of the exception option that you made

The exception impact shows on both the Security recommendations page column and in the flyout pane.

![Screenshot of where to find the exception impact](images/tvm-exception-impact.png)

### View exceptions in other places

Select **Show exceptions** at the bottom of the **Top security recommendations** card in the dashboard to open a filtered view in the **Security recommendations** page of recommendations with an "Exception" status.

![Screenshot of Show exceptions link in the  Top security recommendations card in the dashboard](images/tvm-exception-dashboard.png)

## Related topics

- [Threat & Vulnerability Management overview](next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt.md)
- [Supported operating systems and platforms](tvm-supported-os.md)
- [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)
- [Exposure score](tvm-exposure-score.md)
- [Configuration score](configuration-score.md)
- [Security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md)
- [Software inventory](tvm-software-inventory.md)
- [Weaknesses](tvm-weaknesses.md)
- [Scenarios](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md)
- [APIs](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md#apis)
- [Configure data access for Threat & Vulnerability Management roles](user-roles.md#create-roles-and-assign-the-role-to-an-azure-active-directory-group)

Commit message:

microsoft secure score for devices

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/tvm-remediation.md, after:

---
title: Remediation and exception
description: Remediate security weaknesses and fill exceptions by integrating Microsoft Intune and Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager. 
keywords: microsoft defender atp tvm remediation, mdatp tvm, threat & vulnerability management, threat & vulnerability management remediation, tvm remediation intune, tvm remediation sccm
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: conceptual
---
# Remediation activities and exceptions

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-portaloverview-abovefoldlink)

>[!NOTE]
>To use this capability, enable your Microsoft Intune connections. Navigate to **Settings** > **General** > **Advanced features**. Scroll down and look for **Microsoft Intune connection**. By default, the toggle is turned off. Turn your **Microsoft Intune connection** toggle on.

After your organization's cybersecurity weaknesses are identified and mapped to actionable [security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md), start creating security tasks through the integration with Microsoft Intune where remediation tickets are created.

Lower your organization's exposure from vulnerabilities and increase your security configuration by remediating the security recommendations.

## Navigate to the Remediation page

You can access the Remediation page a few different ways:

- Threat & Vulnerability Management navigation menu in the [Microsoft Defender Security Center](portal-overview.md)
- Top remediation activities card in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)

### Navigation menu

Go to the Threat & Vulnerability Management navigation menu and select **Remediation** to open up the list of remediation activities and exceptions found in your organization.

### Top remediation activities in the dashboard

View **Top remediation activities** in the [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md). Select any of the entries to go to the **Remediation** page. You can mark the remediation activity as completed after the IT admin team remediates the task.

![Screenshot of the remediation page flyout for a software which reached end-of-support](images/tvm-remediation-activities-card.png)

## Remediation activities

When you [submit a remediation request](tvm-security-recommendation.md#request-remediation) from the [Security recommendations page](tvm-security-recommendation.md), it kicks-off a remediation activity. A security task is created which will be tracked in the Threat & Vulnerability Management **Remediation** page, and a remediation ticket is created in Microsoft Intune.

Once you are in the Remediation page, select the remediation activity that you want to view. You can follow the remediation steps, track progress, view the related recommendation, export to CSV, or mark as complete.
![Screenshot of the remediation page flyout for a software which reached end-of-support](images/remediation_flyouteolsw.png)

## Exceptions

When you [file for an exception](tvm-security-recommendation.md#file-for-exception) from the [Security recommendations page](tvm-security-recommendation.md), you create an exception  for that security recommendation. You can file exceptions to exclude certain recommendation from showing up in reports and affecting your [Microsoft Secure Score for Devices](tvm-microsoft-secure-score-devices.md).

The exceptions you've filed will show up in the **Remediation** page, in the **Exceptions** tab. You can filter your view based on exception justification, type, and status.  

![Screenshot of exception tab and filters](images/tvm-exception-filters.png)

### Exception actions and statuses

You can take the following actions on an exception:

- Cancel - You can cancel the exceptions you've filed any time
- Resurface - Your exception automatically becomes void and resurfaces in the security recommendation list when dynamic environmental factors change, which adversely affect the exposure impact associated with a recommendation that had previously been excluded

The following statuses will be a part of an exception:

- **Canceled** - The exception has been canceled and is no longer in effect  
- **Expired** - The exception that you've filed is no longer in effect
- **In effect** - The exception that you've filed is in progress

### Exception impact on scores

Creating an exception can potentially affect the Exposure Score (for both types of weaknesses) and Microsoft Secure Score for Devices of your organization in the following manner:

- **No impact** - Removes the recommendation from the lists (which can be reverse through filters), but will not affect the scores.
- **Mitigation-like impact** - As if the recommendation was mitigated (and scores will be adjusted accordingly) when you select it as a compensating control.
- **Hybrid** - Provides visibility on both No impact and Mitigation-like impact. It shows both the Exposure Score and Microsoft Secure Score for Devices results out of the exception option that you made.

The exception impact shows on both the Security recommendations page column and in the flyout pane.

![Screenshot of where to find the exception impact](images/tvm-exception-impact.png)

### View exceptions in other places

Select **Show exceptions** at the bottom of the **Top security recommendations** card in the dashboard to open a filtered view in the **Security recommendations** page of recommendations with an "Exception" status.

![Screenshot of Show exceptions link in the  Top security recommendations card in the dashboard](images/tvm-exception-dashboard.png)

## Related topics

- [Threat & Vulnerability Management overview](next-gen-threat-and-vuln-mgt.md)
- [Supported operating systems and platforms](tvm-supported-os.md)
- [Threat & Vulnerability Management dashboard](tvm-dashboard-insights.md)
- [Exposure score](tvm-exposure-score.md)
- [Microsoft Secure Score for Devices](tvm-microsoft-secure-score-devices.md)
- [Security recommendations](tvm-security-recommendation.md)
- [Software inventory](tvm-software-inventory.md)
- [Weaknesses](tvm-weaknesses.md)
- [Scenarios](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md)
- [APIs](threat-and-vuln-mgt-scenarios.md#apis)
- [Configure data access for Threat & Vulnerability Management roles](user-roles.md#create-roles-and-assign-the-role-to-an-azure-active-directory-group)
