windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/user-roles.md, before:

---
title: Create and manage roles for role-based access control
description: Create roles and define the permissions assigned to the role as part of the role-based access control implementation 
keywords: user roles, roles, access rbac
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Create and manage roles for role-based access control
**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-roles-abovefoldlink)

[!include[Prerelease information](../../includes/prerelease.md)]

## Create roles and assign the role to an Azure Active Directory group
The following steps guide you on how to create roles in Microsoft Defender Security Center. It assumes that you have already created Azure Active Directory user groups.

1. In the navigation pane, select **Settings > Roles**.

2. Click **Add role**. 

3. Enter the role name, description, and permissions you'd like to assign to the role.

    - **Role name**
    - **Description**
    - **Permissions**
        - **View data** - Users can view information in the portal.
         >[!NOTE]
         >To view Threat & Vulnerability Management data, select **Threat and vulnerability management**.
      
        - **Alerts investigation** - Users can manage alerts, initiate automated investigations, collect investigation packages, manage machine tags, and export machine timeline.
         - **Active remediation actions** - Users can take response actions and approve or dismiss pending remediation actions.
            - Security operations - Take response actions
              - Approve or dismiss pending remediation actions
              - Manage allowed/blocked lists for automation
              - Manage allowed/blocked create Indicators

         >[!NOTE]
         >To enable your Security operation personnel to choose remediation options and file exceptions, select **Threat and vulnerability management - Remediation handling**, and **Threat and vulnerability management - Exception handling**.
        
        - **Manage portal system settings** - Users can configure storage settings, SIEM and threat intel API settings (applies globally), advanced settings, automated file uploads, roles and machine groups.

        > [!NOTE]
        > This setting is only available in the Microsoft Defender ATP administrator (default) role.

        - **Manage security settings** - Users can configure alert suppression settings, manage allowed/blocked lists for automation, create and manage custom detections, manage folder exclusions for automation, onboard and offboard machines, and manage email notifications.

        - **Live response capabilities** - Users can take basic or advanced live response commands.
            - Basic commands allow users to:
                - Start a live response session
                - Run read only live response commands on a remote machine 
             - Advanced commands allow users to:
                - Run basic actions
                - Download a file from the remote machine
                - View a script from the files library
                - Run a script on the remote machine from the files library take read and write commands. 

        For more information on the available commands, see [Investigate machines using Live response](live-response.md).
  
4. Click **Next** to assign the role to an Azure AD Security group.

5. Use the filter to select the Azure AD group that you'd like to add to this role.

6. Click **Save and close**.

7. Apply the configuration settings.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> After creating roles, you'll need to create a machine group and provide access to the machine group by assigning it to a role that you just created. 


## Edit roles

1. Select the role you'd like to edit.

2. Click **Edit**.

3. Modify the details or the groups that are assigned to the role. 

4. Click **Save and close**.

## Delete roles

1. Select the role you'd like to delete.

2. Click the drop-down button and select **Delete role**.


## Related topic
- [User basic permissions to access the portal](basic-permissions.md)
- [Create and manage machine groups](machine-groups.md)

Commit message:

Fifth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/user-roles.md, after:

---
title: Create and manage roles for role-based access control
description: Create roles and define the permissions assigned to the role as part of the role-based access control implementation 
keywords: user roles, roles, access rbac
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: macapara
author: mjcaparas
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Create and manage roles for role-based access control
**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection (Microsoft Defender ATP)](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2069559)

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-roles-abovefoldlink)

[!include[Prerelease information](../../includes/prerelease.md)]

## Create roles and assign the role to an Azure Active Directory group
The following steps guide you on how to create roles in Microsoft Defender Security Center. It assumes that you have already created Azure Active Directory user groups.

1. In the navigation pane, select **Settings > Roles**.

2. Click **Add role**. 

3. Enter the role name, description, and permissions you'd like to assign to the role.

    - **Role name**
    - **Description**
    - **Permissions**
        - **View data** - Users can view information in the portal.
         >[!NOTE]
         >To view Threat & Vulnerability Management data, select **Threat and vulnerability management**.
      
        - **Alerts investigation** - Users can manage alerts, initiate automated investigations, collect investigation packages, manage device tags, and export device timeline.
         - **Active remediation actions** - Users can take response actions and approve or dismiss pending remediation actions.
            - Security operations - Take response actions
              - Approve or dismiss pending remediation actions
              - Manage allowed/blocked lists for automation
              - Manage allowed/blocked create Indicators

         >[!NOTE]
         >To enable your Security operation personnel to choose remediation options and file exceptions, select **Threat and vulnerability management - Remediation handling**, and **Threat and vulnerability management - Exception handling**.
        
        - **Manage portal system settings** - Users can configure storage settings, SIEM and threat intel API settings (applies globally), advanced settings, automated file uploads, roles and device groups.

        > [!NOTE]
        > This setting is only available in the Microsoft Defender ATP administrator (default) role.

        - **Manage security settings** - Users can configure alert suppression settings, manage allowed/blocked lists for automation, create and manage custom detections, manage folder exclusions for automation, onboard and offboard devices, and manage email notifications.

        - **Live response capabilities** - Users can take basic or advanced live response commands.
            - Basic commands allow users to:
                - Start a live response session
                - Run read only live response commands on a remote device 
             - Advanced commands allow users to:
                - Run basic actions
                - Download a file from the remote device
                - View a script from the files library
                - Run a script on the remote device from the files library take read and write commands. 

        For more information on the available commands, see [Investigate devices using Live response](live-response.md).
  
4. Click **Next** to assign the role to an Azure AD Security group.

5. Use the filter to select the Azure AD group that you'd like to add to this role.

6. Click **Save and close**.

7. Apply the configuration settings.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> After creating roles, you'll need to create a device group and provide access to the device group by assigning it to a role that you just created. 


## Edit roles

1. Select the role you'd like to edit.

2. Click **Edit**.

3. Modify the details or the groups that are assigned to the role. 

4. Click **Save and close**.

## Delete roles

1. Select the role you'd like to delete.

2. Click the drop-down button and select **Delete role**.


## Related topic
- [User basic permissions to access the portal](basic-permissions.md)
- [Create and manage device groups](machine-groups.md)
