windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/web-protection-response.md, before:

---
title: Respond to web threats in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: Respond to alerts related to malicious and unwanted websites. Understand how web threat protection informs end users through their web browsers and Windows notifications
keywords: web protection, web threat protection, web browsing, alerts, response, security, phishing, malware, exploit, websites, network protection, Edge, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, web browser, notifications, end users, Windows notifications, blocking page,
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Respond to web threats

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-main-abovefoldlink&rtc=1)

Web protection in Microsoft Defender ATP lets you efficiently investigate and respond to alerts related to malicious websites and websites in your custom indicator list.

## View web threat alerts
Microsoft Defender ATP generates the following [alerts](manage-alerts.md) for malicious or suspicious web activity:
- **Suspicious connection blocked by network protection** — this alert is generated when an attempt to access a malicious website or a website in your custom indicator list is *stopped* by network protection in *block* mode
- **Suspicious connection detected by network protection** — this alert is generated when an attempt to access a malicious website or a website in your custom indicator list is detected by network protection in *audit only* mode

Each alert provides the following information: 
- Machine that attempted to access the blocked website
- Application or program used to send the web request
- Malicious URL or URL in the custom indicator list
- Recommended actions for responders

![Image of an alert related to web threat protection](images/wtp-alert.png)

>[!Note]
>To reduce the volume of alerts, Microsoft Defender ATP consolidates web threat detections for the same domain on the same machine each day to a single alert. Only one alert is generated and counted into the [web protection report](web-protection-monitoring.md).

## Inspect website details
You can dive deeper by selecting the URL or domain of the website in the alert. This opens a page about that particular URL or domain with various information, including:
- Machines that attempted to access website
- Incidents and alerts related to the website
- How frequent the website was seen in events in your organization

![Image of the domain or URL entity details page](images/wtp-website-details.png)

[Learn more about URL or domain entity pages](investigate-domain.md)

## Inspect the machine
You can also check the machine that attempted to access a blocked URL. Selecting the name of the machine on the alert page opens a page with comprehensive information about the machine.

[Learn more about machine entity pages](investigate-machines.md)

## Web browser and Windows notifications for end users

With web protection in Microsoft Defender ATP, your end users will be prevented from visiting malicious or unwanted websites using Microsoft Edge or other browsers. Because blocking is performed by [network protection](network-protection.md), they will see a generic error from the web browser. They will also see a notification from Windows.

![Image of Microsoft Edge showing a 403 error and the Windows notification](images/wtp-browser-blocking-page.png)
*Web threat blocked on Microsoft Edge*

![Image of Chrome web browser showing a secure connection warning and the Windows notification](images/wtp-chrome-browser-blocking-page.png)
*Web threat blocked on Chrome*

## Related topics
- [Web protection overview](web-protection-overview.md)
- [Web content filtering](web-content-filtering.md)
- [Web threat protection](web-threat-protection.md)
- [Monitor web security](web-protection-monitoring.md)

Commit message:

Fifth set of doc updates - machine ---> device

windows/security/threat-protection/microsoft-defender-atp/web-protection-response.md, after:

---
title: Respond to web threats in Microsoft Defender ATP
description: Respond to alerts related to malicious and unwanted websites. Understand how web threat protection informs end users through their web browsers and Windows notifications
keywords: web protection, web threat protection, web browsing, alerts, response, security, phishing, malware, exploit, websites, network protection, Edge, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, web browser, notifications, end users, Windows notifications, blocking page,
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: w10
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
ms.author: ellevin
author: levinec
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: M365-security-compliance 
ms.topic: article
---

# Respond to web threats

>Want to experience Microsoft Defender ATP? [Sign up for a free trial.](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/windows/microsoft-defender-atp?ocid=docs-wdatp-main-abovefoldlink&rtc=1)

Web protection in Microsoft Defender ATP lets you efficiently investigate and respond to alerts related to malicious websites and websites in your custom indicator list.

## View web threat alerts
Microsoft Defender ATP generates the following [alerts](manage-alerts.md) for malicious or suspicious web activity:
- **Suspicious connection blocked by network protection** — this alert is generated when an attempt to access a malicious website or a website in your custom indicator list is *stopped* by network protection in *block* mode
- **Suspicious connection detected by network protection** — this alert is generated when an attempt to access a malicious website or a website in your custom indicator list is detected by network protection in *audit only* mode

Each alert provides the following information: 
- Device that attempted to access the blocked website
- Application or program used to send the web request
- Malicious URL or URL in the custom indicator list
- Recommended actions for responders

![Image of an alert related to web threat protection](images/wtp-alert.png)

>[!Note]
>To reduce the volume of alerts, Microsoft Defender ATP consolidates web threat detections for the same domain on the same device each day to a single alert. Only one alert is generated and counted into the [web protection report](web-protection-monitoring.md).

## Inspect website details
You can dive deeper by selecting the URL or domain of the website in the alert. This opens a page about that particular URL or domain with various information, including:
- Devices that attempted to access website
- Incidents and alerts related to the website
- How frequent the website was seen in events in your organization

![Image of the domain or URL entity details page](images/wtp-website-details.png)

[Learn more about URL or domain entity pages](investigate-domain.md)

## Inspect the device
You can also check the device that attempted to access a blocked URL. Selecting the name of the device on the alert page opens a page with comprehensive information about the device.

[Learn more about device entity pages](investigate-machines.md)

## Web browser and Windows notifications for end users

With web protection in Microsoft Defender ATP, your end users will be prevented from visiting malicious or unwanted websites using Microsoft Edge or other browsers. Because blocking is performed by [network protection](network-protection.md), they will see a generic error from the web browser. They will also see a notification from Windows.

![Image of Microsoft Edge showing a 403 error and the Windows notification](images/wtp-browser-blocking-page.png)
*Web threat blocked on Microsoft Edge*

![Image of Chrome web browser showing a secure connection warning and the Windows notification](images/wtp-chrome-browser-blocking-page.png)
*Web threat blocked on Chrome*

## Related topics
- [Web protection overview](web-protection-overview.md)
- [Web content filtering](web-content-filtering.md)
- [Web threat protection](web-threat-protection.md)
- [Monitor web security](web-protection-monitoring.md)
